Microsoft Bookings - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Software & Systems Admin Systems Microsoft Bookings Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems WISER Email Password CloudPC Docusign Electronic Signature Software for Faculty & Staff Student IT Discounts Wifi Aira Accessibility Technology Telecom Mathematica Admin Systems 25Live Advising Case Management Document Imaging Microsoft Bookings Onedrive Perceptive Experience Servicenow Teams Microsoft Forms Planner Services for Alumni Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Microsoft Bookings Microsoft Bookings takes the back-and-forth out of your clients and colleagues scheduling time with you. How often do you get or send those “When can we meet” emails? How often do you find yourself manually typing up a list of the days and times that you’re available to meet? Bookings takes the juggling out of your schedule, and it’s free for all UMass faculty and staff! Bookings creates a webpage for you to share with your clients and colleagues. It connects to your calendar to show what times you are free to meet (your calendar entries are private, just your availability is shown) and lets people pick a time that works for both of you. Use it for meetings, room/equipment reservations, consultations, and other services. Launch Microsoft Bookings Click the button above to visit Microsoft Bookings, and log in with your full UMass Boston email address and email password. First time with Bookings? Create and Manage Bookings. What is Microsoft Bookings? Note: Bookings is often used for small businesses so some of the examples and wording are used with that in mind, however bookings is just as effective to be used in an organization like UMass, for departments or individuals! The above video is part of an in-depth training course. Want to see more? Look for the LinkedIn Learning note below. Documentation How to use the Bookit System operated by IT Labs Bookings Training and Support Get more Bookings training from LinkedIn Learning . Just log in with your UMass Boston account to take the full in-depth course, or just jump around to specific topics! Bookings is available through our webmail service, but it’s not a fully supported app by the UMass Boston IT department. If you get stuck, we’ll do our best to help but we may not be able to support it as much as some of our other services. Contact the IT Service Desk and let us know your question. Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms