Public Records - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home About Student Consumer Information Public Records Menu menu Menu Leadership & Administration Mission Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information Cares Act Financial Health Safety Institutional Outcomes Public Records Public Records The Commonwealth of Massachusetts updated the public records law to assure citizens of our commonwealth transparency and access to government. Commonly requested public records include: University budget Staff and faculty salaries (statewide database) What are public records? Only existing identifiable records are public records. The law does not require the creation of new records to respond to a public records request. Where do I send a public records request? Email your request to publicrecords@umb.edu or send by regular mail to: UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 What kind of information do I need to include? Your public records request should include the following information: Contact information: your name, mailing address, and telephone number. Feel free to include any other information you may feel to be useful, such as your email, fax, or cell phone number. A description of the specific records being requested. The request must be specific enough for the university to be able to identify the records being requested. If the request is not clear, the university may request clarification. If the requester fails to clarify, the university need not continue processing the request. Is there a cost associated with filing a public records request? The university may charge up to $25 per hour – after the first four hours – for the compiling of records in response to a request. What kind of response should be expected? Within 10 days of receiving your request, the university will respond in writing and include the following: Confirmation of receipt of the request. Identification of any record that is not held or maintained by the university. Identification of the agency or municipality that may hold those records sought, if known. Identification of any known records that the university intends to withhold, citing the law's specific exemptions. Identification of the records the university intends to produce. If the records cannot be produced within 10 days, a detailed statement explaining why. If applicable, suggestions of reasonable modifications of the scope of the request to reduce the time and cost to produce the records. An itemized, good-faith estimate of any fees that may be charged. A statement informing the requestor of the right to appeal the response to the Supervisor of Public Records, and the right to seek judicial review of an unfavorable decision. What if the records requested are not public records? The university will make every effort to provide the information requested. However, the law exempts certain records from disclosure. These exemptions can be found at http://www.sec.state.ma.us/pre/prepdf/guide.pdf . Can the university seek additional time to respond to a request? Complex requests may require more than 10 days to compile and review. In such cases the university will ask the requestor for an extension. If the requestor does not agree, the university will file a request for an extension with the Supervisor of Public Records. Is there additional guidance available? The Supervisor of Public Records for the Secretary of State has issued regulations. Can you keep my request for records confidential? No, your public records request is not a confidential record. Your request is itself a public record. It can be requested by others and the office forwards public records requests to the departments holding records and to third parties who have an interest in the records you have requested. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms