Clinical Leadership Collaborative - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Clinical Leadership Collaborative for Diversity in Nursing (CLCDN) Home The Manning College Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Partnerships Clinical Leadership Collaborative Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Partnerships Clinical Leadership Collaborative Partners Web Links DEU Global Health Nervana NE Baptist Hospital Nebh Nurse Scientist Collab Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Clinical Leadership Collaborative for Diversity in Nursing (CLCDN) Brief Description of the Program The Clinical Leadership Collaborative for Diversity in Nursing (CLCDN) is a partnership between Mass General Brigham (MGB) and UMass Boston’s Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences (MCNHS).  The CLCDN Fellowship provides professional and leadership development opportunities for diverse nursing students at UMass Boston (UMB) who have demonstrated academic excellence, the promise of success, and leadership potential. This program is dedicated to driving transformative change in the nursing workforce, embodying the spirit of diversity, equity, and innovation.  To date, the program has supported over 100 undergraduate nursing students. In the summer of 2023, a remarkable $20 million expansion of the program was announced, with $10 million gifts from both MGB and the UMass Boston Foundation to support up to 400 students over the next 5 years. This substantial investment serves as a testament to the joint commitment of fostering a healthcare landscape that is not only clinically proficient but also culturally sensitive.  The expansion of the CLCDN program forges a sizable path toward an inclusive, equitable, and proficient future for nursing, where diversity is celebrated, leadership is cultivated, and nursing's role is solidified in shaping health equity. CLCDN Team Members Currently, the UMB team includes Drs. Jessica Whiteley and Suha Ballout, Gabriela Eschleman, and our CLCDN Fellows working together with MGB’s Dr. Gaurdia Banister, Colleen Moran, MJ Ryan, and CLCDN mentors from MGB hospitals around greater Boston. This expansion will allow our team to grow, innovate, and continue to serve the program and our CLCDN Fellows. Recruitment of Students With the expansion, MCNHS Nursing students in the Bachelor of Science degree program in both the traditional option as well as the accelerated option will be able to apply to participate in the fellowship.  The initial call for applications will be announced in the fall of 2023 and will be ongoing for five years. Students undergo a rigorous application process. The CLCDN team from UMB and MGB participates in the selection of the fellows. CLCDN Fellowship CLCDN Fellows are assigned a mentor from the beginning of their fellowship through their first year of a nursing position in the MGB system. Throughout nursing school, as part of their professional development with the CLCDN program, Fellows receive leadership training, peer support, mentorship, networking opportunities, professional development, financial support, and MGB clinical placements to support their success and prepare them for their nursing careers. CLCDN Program Outcomes Previous CLCDN alumnae and mentors have enrolled in or completed graduate school, attained leadership roles in the nursing field, participated in professional organizations, addressed global health issues, championed combating health inequities, and served as role models in the nursing field. This unique partnership between MGB and UMass Boston to support and expand the CLCDN program stands as a beacon of progress, inclusivity, and excellence as it promotes transformative change in the nursing workforce. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms