Departments - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Library About Healey Library Departments Menu menu Menu About Healey Library Departments Donations Floor Directory Hours Policies Staff Directory Study Spaces Course Reserves E-Resources Help Info For Faculty Interlibrary Loan Journals My Library Account Departments Archives and Special Collections | Circulation | Collections and Scholary Communications | Curriculum Resource Collection | Engagement and Advancement | Library Administration | Library Systems and Discovery Services | Office of the University Librarian | Resource Sharing and Document Delivery (InterLibrary Loan) | Reference, Outreach, and Instruction | Technical Services Archives and Special Collections University Archives and Special Collections in the Joseph P. Healey Library at the University of Massachusetts Boston was established in 1981 as a repository to collect archival material in subject areas of interest to the university, as well as the records of the university itself. The mission and history of the University of Massachusetts Boston guide the collection policies of University Archives and Special Collections, with the university’s urban mission and strong support of community service reflected in the records of and related to urban planning, social welfare, social action, alternative movements, community organizations, war and social consequence, and local history related to neighboring communities. At present, University Archives and Special Collections is particularly interested in expanding its collections related to the Boston Harbor Islands and Boston bicycling history. There are a number of ways for faculty, students, and community members to get involved with University Archives and Special Collections programs and initiatives, from assistance with collections management and building, to work with the nationally-recognized Mass. Memories Road Show program, to scheduling class visits or assignments related to historical archival materials and primary sources as part of academic coursework. To carry out its mission, University Archives and Special Collections is committed to working with, promoting, and assisting community archives in the Greater Boston area through facilitating cross-organization collaboration and access to informational, educational, and practical resources relevant to archival procedures and best practices. For more information, visit blogs.umb.edu/archives . Selected Resources Archival and Manuscript Collections: Finding Aids Digital Collections Mass. Memories Road Show Collection William Joiner Institute Collections ScholarWorks Hours The Archives Research Room is available by appointment to view archival collections, Special Collections books, and theses and dissertations. Appointments are available between 10:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m., Monday - Thursday. Archivists also provide remote services. Email library.archives@umb.edu for assistance. Contact library.archives@umb.edu Staff Meghan Bailey Processing Archivist meghan.bailey@umb.edu Patricia L. Bruttomesso​ Archival Collections Project Manager patricia.bruttomesso@umb.edu Andrew Elder University Archivist and Curator of Special Collections andrew.elder@umb.edu Carolyn Goldstein Public History and Community Archives Program Manager carolyn.goldstein@umb.edu Jessica Holden Associate Archivist for Research Services jessica.holden@umb.edu Joanne Riley Digital Initiatives Archivist joanne.riley@umb.edu Back to Top Collections and Scholarly Communications Collections and Scholarly Communications handles faculty and students requests for, as well as questions about, new resources: books, videos, journals, databases, etc. We also respond to queries about potential donations of books and journals. Hours Monday–Friday , 8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. Contact 617.287.4809 Use the Healey Library Requests Form to request items (books, journals, videos, databases, etc.) for purchase. Staff Lydia Burrage-Goodwin Special Projects Librarian 617.287.6152 lydia.burragegoodwin@umb.edu Christine Moynihan Scholarly Communications , Data, & Affordable Learning Librarian 617.287.6127 christine.moynihan@umb.edu Steve Smith Head of Collections and Scholarly Communications 617.287.4809 steven.smith@umb.edu Back to Top Circulation The Circulation Department assists patrons with barcodes, account questions, picking up or returning borrowed items, and with general information questions. Hours Circulation is open during regular library hours . Contact 617.287.5900 library.circulation@umb.edu Staff Marilyn Day Reference Desk marilyn.day@umb.edu Rayshawnda Germany-Porter Evening Circulation Desk Assistant rs.germanyporter@umb.edu Roxann Harvey Library Desks Assistant Manager roxann.harvey@umb.edu James Lucas Circulation Department Assistant james.lucas@umb.edu Dorothy Sabbarese Circulation Department Assistant dorothy.sabbarese@umb.edu Ann Marie Shafer Head of Library Access Services annmarie.shafer@umb.edu Back to Top Curriculum Resource Collection Healey Library's Curriculum Resource Collection (CRC) contains pre K-12 instructional materials (print and electronic) and study space to support the College of Education and Human Development (CEHD) . Resources in the CRC are available to all UMass Boston patrons and may be checked out through curbside pickup through the Library Requests Form . For additional information and online resources, see the Curriculum Resource Collection guide. Contact For assistance with the Curriculum Resource Collection, please email library.reference@umb.edu . Resources The CRC covers all grade levels and a variety of learning styles in these subject areas: arts, health, history, math, language arts, science, and technology. Resources include: braille/print books, educational games, fiction and non-fiction, lesson planning material, math manipulatives, math/science kits, multicultural literature, place-based learning materials, and reference books. Additionally, there are online databases and many vetted websites available for educators. Special Collections Children's Award Books : Newbery, Caldecott, Coretta Scott King and Batchelder Medal winners are located at the beginning of the CRC shelves. Spanish Resource Center : Spanish and bilingual books for pre K-12 Early Childhood Assessment : Surveys, rating scales, inventories for evaluation purposes only Class Visits, Tours, and Library Instruction Please contact library.reference@umb.edu to arrange for a virtual library research workshop. For information about library instruction, see the Library Instruction Program page. Back to Top Engagement and Advancement The Engagement and Advancement department coordinates projects and initiatives related to fundraising, grant writing, and library outreach and engagement. Hours Monday - Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Staff Mary Moser Engagement and Advancement Librarian 617.287.3207 Mary.Moser@umb.edu Back to Top Library Administration The Library Administration Office manages all matters related to finance and personnel. Contact 617.287.5917 library.admin@umb.edu Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) How do I place a book or film on reserve for my students to view outside of class? See instructions for placing an item on reserve . How do I reserve a film to show to my class? Complete the form to reserve a film for classroom viewing . How do I suggest items to be added to the library's collections? Complete the Library Requests Form . How do I borrow an article, book, or film that is not in the library's catalog? We provide borrowing services through other libraries using InterLibrary loan . How do I make a donation to the Healey Library collections? See our gift policy for complete details. Staff Samantha Regan Assistant Dean for Administration and Finance 617.287.5917 samantha.regan@umb.edu Heidi Moesinger Business Manager 617.287.6175 heidi.moesinger@umb.edu Back to Top Library Systems and Discovery Services Library Systems and Discovery Services (LSDS) supports Healey Library's online services and systems, like UMBrella and access to our databases and electronic resources. Hours Monday–Friday, 9 a.m.–5 p.m. Contact library.systems@umb.edu Staff Yueqing Chen Head of Library Systems and Discovery Services 617.287.5167 yueqing.chen@umb.edu Louisa Choy Electronic Resources and Systems Librarian 617.287.6156 louisa.choy@umb.edu Eunkyung “E.K.” Lee Discovery & Systems Development Librarian 617.287.4807 eunkyung.lee@umb.edu Back to Top Resource Sharing and Document Delivery (InterLibrary Loan) UMass Boston students and staff may use InterLibrary Loan services to borrow or obtain copies of materials currently unavailable in Healey Library's physical or online collections. Sign in to InterLibrary Loan to manage your account. ILL Return Options Circulation Desk Beginning September 7, 2021, ILL items may be returned at the 2nd Floor Circulation desk Book Drop Locations ILL items may be returned in the bookdrops located in the Healey Library Catwalk, and in the Integrated Sciences Compex (ISC) Driveway. Contact Free Curbside Returns ILL items may be returned via our Curbside program . Hours: By appointment Monday through Saturday Location: Integrated Sciences Complex (ISC) drop-off area Mail, UPS, FedEx*. Please address packages accordingly. We strongly recommend adding tracking to your package. Healey Library at UMass Boston ATTN: ILL 100 Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA, 02125 * If you would like to request assistance with the cost of postage, please email library.circulation@umb.edu . Hours Monday–Friday, 8 a.m.– 4 p.m. Contact For the fastest response, please send us an email! library.ill@umb.edu Staff Simone Lopes InterLibrary Loan Coordinator (borrowing) 617.287.5945 library.ill@umb.edu Jenny Moyryla Head of Resource Sharing & Document Delivery 617.287.5905 library.ill@umb.edu Brody Torres InterLibrary Loan Coordinator (lending) 617.287.5953 library.ill@umb.edu Back to Top Office of the University Librarian Hours Monday–Friday, 9 a.m.–5 p.m. Staff Stephanie Walker Dean of University Libraries 617.287.5916 Stephanie.Walker@umb.edu Vacant Executive Administrator to the Dean of University Libraries library.admin@umb.edu Back to Top Reference, Outreach, and Instruction Healey Library's Reference, Outreach, and Instruction (ROI) team is here to help you: with your research with any library-related need discover new sources find answers to all your questions Virtual Reference Services Virtual Reference Services are freely available to all users through the Healey Library Ask a Librarian service. Feel free to take advantage of whichever method best meets your needs and preferences: Searchable knowledgebase of FAQs Online form through which to submit your question if not found in the FAQs Direct email message to Reference Librarians through the departmental email address Use the chat box for research help. Staffed by librarians from UMass Boston and a nationwide cooperative. Virtual Research Consultation Services The consultation services provided by the Healey Library Faculty Librarians offer you personalized, in-depth, hands-on assistance with and instruction in locating and accessing Healey Library’s licensed resources, high-quality open access research materials, and the research resources of other libraries when needed. Research consultations typically last an hour, and more time may be allotted as needed for in-depth projects. You may sign up online for a Zoom consultation with a Librarian. Research consultations are only available by appointment. If none of the available appointment times work for you, please email library.reference@umb.edu to arrange a mutually suitable meeting time. All library patrons are welcome to sign up for a consultation. If you require an accommodation, such as the use of a screen reader or other assistive technology, please let us know in advance, if possible, so that the librarians may make the necessary arrangements for your meeting. You may also contact the reference librarians at Library.Reference@umb.edu with any questions about the electronic accessibility of any of our resources. Please see our Reference and Research Consultation Services Policies for more information and guidance about the services we provide our patrons. Library Instruction Services We created a one-page student guide to library services to add to your syllabi. You can find more information on our library instruction page. Hours Monday–Friday, 9 a.m.–5 p.m. Contact library.reference@umb.edu Staff Lucas Hall Reference & Instruction Librarian lucas.hall@umb.edu Teresa Maceira Head of Reference, Outreach, & Instruction teresa.maceira@umb.edu Lauren Movlai Reference & Instruction Librarian lauren.movlai@umb.edu J Troy Liaison Librarian j.troy@umb.edu Back to Top Technical Services Technical Services acquires, catalogs, and manages the processing of all items (print, electronic, digital media, subscriptions, etc.) that will be added to or removed from the Library's collections. Also, we provide reserve materials for students that are selected by faculty members as required or recommended reading for their courses. E-books will be purchased before print copies when available to provide greater accessibility to your students. New materials should be requested via our Library Request Form . Hours Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.– 5:00 p.m. Contact Cataloging: 617.287.4787 / library.cataloging@umb.edu Reserves: 617.287.5904 / library.reserves@umb.edu Staff Francis Alix Library Acquisitions & Access Coordinator 617.287.5904 francis.alix@umb.edu Lisa Romano Head of Technical Services 617.287.4787 lisa.romano@umb.edu Back to Top Library Menu About Accessibility Archives Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Databases List E-Resources Give Now Healey Library News Help Info for Faculty InterLibrary Loan My Library Account Research Guides (Search by topic) ScholarWorks (Campus Archives for Faculty Research and Publications) UMBrella Worldcat at UMass Boston (Search libraries worldwide) Healey Library 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 US 617.287.5900 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms