Graduate Student Curriculum  - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home COSMIC Graduate Student Curriculum Menu menu Menu People Projects Teacher Curriculum Graduate Student Curriculum Undergraduate Student Curriculum Publications Graduate Student Curriculum Noyce Scholars for Teaching/Teach Next Year Overview of the Program The Noyce Scholars for Teaching program seeks to encourage talented science, technology, engineering, and mathematics professionals to become K-12 mathematics and science teachers. The program is an experiential urban school-based route to earning a master’s degree in education (MEd) and Massachusetts initial teacher licensure through the University of Massachusetts Boston in approximately 12 months. The program features summer courses at the university, followed by integrated teaching and graduate study on site at two schools: the Dorchester Education Complex (DEC) and the John D O’Bryant High School. Participants who complete Noyce Scholars for Teaching and who pass the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure (MTEL) will earn initial teacher certification at the secondary level, be eligible for interstate reciprocity, and meet the requirements for a master’s degree in education. A Different Path to Certification The Noyce Scholars for Teaching program is designed for professionals who have been working in the field, who have exemplary records of leadership and achievement and who are committed to a career in urban teaching. Graduate course work will be concurrently delivered to supplement and enrich the teaching experiences. Scholars will be full partners in this school-university collaboration dedicated to enhancing learning for all students. The Noyce Scholars for Teaching program begins in early July, moves into the high schools in September, and remains primarily school-based for the remainder of the year. Participants work in various roles with high school students–initially as tutors, co-teachers and student teachers, and by mid-year as full-time teachers with a reduced assignment. The Noyce Scholars for Teaching program is designed to build on the interests and expertise of its students, faculty and the students at its partner high schools. Because it is an intensive site-based educational experience, it provides the support of professors, practitioners and colleagues while it supplies the challenge of study, practice and exploration. Description of the Sites Boston is the largest city in Massachusetts. DEC serves a culturally and racially diverse community, primarily African-American, Haitian, and Latino/Latina. It is composed of three small high schools serving approximately 950 students. It is engaged in several exciting school reform and improvement initiatives, featuring its structure of small learning environments and its professional development school partnership with the University of Massachusetts Boston. The John D O’Bryant is a grade 7-12 exam school that admits students based upon test scores and grade point averages. It serves a culturally and racially diverse community, primarily of 1239 African-American, Asian, Latino/Latina, and Caucasian students. Appropriate header... Who Can Participate? Or Consortium? Other? College of Education and Human Development, University of Massachusetts Boston Dorchester Education Complex John D O’Bryant High School of Mathematics and Science Costs and Benefits Participants are expected to pay for our summer courses During the academic year, tuition is waved and fees are reduced. Noyce Scholars for Teaching receive a $10,000 stipend Additional application for financial aid is strongly recommended since Noyce is full-time work. Successful participants are expected to teach in an urban school for at least two years, within six years of graduation. Admission Requirements Applicants to the Noyce Scholars for Teaching program must have, a bachelor’s, master’s or doctoral degree in science, technology, engineering, or math and have spent some time working in one of these fields. Persons of African-American, Latino, Native American, and Asian backgrounds, and those people with proficiency in a language other than English are particularly encouraged to apply. Applicants with strong academic credentials and evidence of leadership skills will be invited to a day of introductions and interviews with representatives of the schools, community and university in April. Acceptance will be based on admission to the graduate teacher education program at the University of Massachusetts Boston, the outcome of the interviews, and availability of proper subject area placement. Full admission is contingent upon passing the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure. Application Process Applications completed by March 15 will receive first consideration. In order to apply, visit the UMass Boston website at www.umb.edu/admissions/grad/apply. You may apply online, or you may print and mail in a paper application. Paper With a paper application, send the original application and all enclosures to UMass Boston. Be sure to indicate Noyce Scholars for Teaching where it asks for “Program/track” on Line 1. In addition, a copy of your application and unofficial copies of all enclosures should be sent to: Lisa Gonsalves/Noyce Scholars for Teaching College of Education and Human Development University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125-3393 Online If you apply online, you must make a print-out of your application and unofficial copies of all attachments (essay, recommendations, transcripts, resume, etc.) and mail them directly to Lisa Gonsalves at the above address. In your essay, be sure to address the subject area you wish to teach, your philosophy of education, your specific goals, your reason for wanting to become an urban high school teacher in the subject area you have chosen, relevant aspects of your background, and your thoughts about contemporary schools and current movements in education. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms