Autism Endorsement Certificate - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Autism Endorsement Certificate Home Academics Majors & Programs Autism Endorsement Certificate Request Info Loading... Gain the skills to more effectively teach individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder. UMass Boston’s Autism Endorsement Certificate focuses on the characteristics, assessments, and strategies for effective instruction and collaboration to support teachers working with students with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) across a variety of settings. The program is designed for educators across Massachusetts who want to become certified to work with students with ASD. It is also appropriate as an add-on endorsement for individuals across a variety of license areas in special education. Explore evidence-based practices and strategies in an interactive online learning environment and apply what you're learning in class to your classroom or individual setting. This program fulfills the requirements to receive the credentials for the Autism Endorsement for Educator License from Massachusetts's Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). This certificate is appropriate as an add-on endorsement for individuals across a variety of license areas in special education. This endorsement is available to educators who hold a teacher license and at least three credits in special education OR a license in one of the following areas of special education: Moderate Disabilities Teacher of Students with Severe Disabilities Teacher of the Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Teacher of the Visually Impaired or who are currently enrolled in an existing program. Why Get an Autism Endorsement Certificate from UMass Boston? The online program provides a flexible way to take additional courses to learn how to more effectively teach individuals with ASD. Courses are designed to be interactive and applied so they clearly link to your classroom or setting. The program will provide key instruction related to characteristics, assessment, evidence-based practices, and collaboration across personnel. It's appropriate for educators across Massachusetts. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: A statement of purpose explaining the applicant’s reasons for pursuing graduate study in autism endorsement. A distinguished graduate transcript, with a minimum grade point average of 3.0. Proof of enrollment in the Special Education (Certificate) - Initial Licensure in Moderate Disabilities PreK-8 or 5-12 program or hold a valid license in one of the following areas of special education: Moderate disabilities Teacher of students with severe disabilities Teacher of the Deaf and hard-of-hearing Teacher of the visually impaired Three letters of recommendation submitted by individuals who are knowledgeable about teaching students with disabilities, who have worked closely with the applicant, and who have direct knowledge of the applicant’s teaching skills and academic performance. A writing sample indicating the applicant’s ability to write in a clear, concise, and professional manner. This sample may be in the form of a recent term paper or research paper. The writing sample should not be an Individualized Educational Program (IEP), an evaluation report, or a lesson/unit plan. Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Required Courses (12 Credits) SPE G 661 - Autism Spectrum Disorder: Foundations & Characteristics 3 Credit(s) SPE G 662 - Autism Spectrum Disorder: Assessment and Collaboration 3 Credit(s) SPE G 663 - Autism Spectrum Disorders: Programs, Services, and Supports 3 Credit(s) SPE G 664 - Autism Spectrum Disorder: Field Experience 3 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Program Requirements Complete twelve credits from four required courses. Statute of limitations: Three years. Contact Associate Dean Christopher B. Denning Christopher.Denning [@] umb.edu (617) 287-6539 Graduate Program Director Songtian (Tim) Zeng Songtian.Zeng [@] umb.edu (617) 287-6409 Curriculum & Instruction Learn more about UMass Boston's Curriculum & Instruction department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Curriculum & Instruction College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) SARA Compliance, Disclosure & Dispute Resolution UMass Boston programs are designed to meet the requirements for licensure or certification in Massachusetts. Please contact your state licensing or certification board to determine whether the program meets the requirements for licensure or certification in other states. Learn More about SARA UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms