Joseph P. Healey Research Grant Program - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Internal Funding Programs Joseph P. Healey Research Grant Program Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Proposal Development Grant Program Public Service Grant Program Joseph P. Healey Research Grant Program Past Awards and Funding Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Joseph P. Healey Research Grant Program The Joseph P. Healey Research Grant Program supports research and scholarly activities that enhance the quality of the academic and intellectual life at the university. All forms of research and scholarly activities are eligible through this grant program. Deadline Applications must be submitted via Kuali Proposal Development by Monday, April 1, 2024, at 5:00 PM EST. Contact your Departmental Research Administrator for further guidance. Awards Announced ~June 1, 2024 Maximum Award $10,000 For additional information, please contact internal.grants@umb.edu Eligibility to Submit a Proposal Current UMass Boston faculty or research staff members are eligible to submit a proposal for consideration. Single or multi-PI applications are eligible, including non-UMass Boston senior personnel (unfunded collaborators). Application and Submission Information Applicants are required to submit Proposals through Kuali Proposal Development (PD ). Applicants must contact their Department’s Research Administrator for assistance in submitting their application. Download the Kuali Internal Funding Programs Guide (also called: Aggregator Internal Submission Guide). By using UMass Boston’s online portal, all department-related signatories, such as Dept. Chairs and Deans will be sent notifications to approve proposals electronically. PI’s, and CO-PI’s, will also be sent notifications to confirm Financial Conflict of Interest. Excluding the ORSP Budget Workbook, the following attachments must be completed and saved as PDFs for your Internal Submission. Checklist of Submission Items 1. ORSP Budget Tool 2. Budget Justification 3. Abstract 4. Project Narrative 5. Biosketch(es) 6. Current and Pending Support 7. Letters of Collaboration (if applicable) Budget Workbook Project Period: 07/01/2024 to 12/31/2025 Max Award amount: $10,000 No indirect costs or F&A on any application Use ORSP Budget Tool found here . Keep this attachment in excel format. Request only those items indispensable to the project and not available through one’s department or from other funding sources. Budget Justification The accompanying budget justification must explain each item requested in this budget – a maximum of 2 pages , with a font size no smaller than 12. Allowable budget items: Graduate & Undergraduate research assistants Required supplies and materials Technical and/or administrative support above and beyond standard departmental resource Travel costs that are necessary to conduct the research Funds to conduct research using the UMass Boston Core Facilities – Genomics Core, Environmental Analytical Core Facility, and the Animal Facility. Unallowable budget items: Course buyouts, salaries, or additional compensations for PI or Co-PIs Travel to present results of research Capital equipment Personnel costs at other universities or institutions Abstract Abstracts are a maximum of 1 page, with a font size no smaller than 12. Please include the following; A succinct project description and summary of the proposed work which should be informative to other persons working in the same or related fields If applicable, briefly describe the interdisciplinary or multi-disciplinary nature of the proposed project Project Narrative Narratives are a maximum of 4 pages , double-spaced, with a font size no smaller than 12. This is the core of the proposal describing the project for which funding is being requested. The applicant must be as clear as possible, remembering that the review committee will represent various disciplines and program areas and will not necessarily have strong expertise in the subject matter of the proposal. The project narrative will be evaluated based on the following elements: Specific goals, objectives, and problem statement for this research or scholarly activity Significance of the project to your field and to you as a researcher Research methods and approach Outcomes of the proposed project (e.g., preparation of a manuscript for publication, production of a piece of music or art, presentation at a professional meeting, submission of a proposal for external funding) Biosketch(es) A biosketch is needed for each PI and Key Personnel – maximum 3 page s. Further instructions are on the Biosketch Template found here . Current and Pending Support PI’s and all Key Personnel must each complete the Current and Pending Support form found here . Other Attachments Letters of Collaboration – Letters of collaboration should be limited to stating the intent to collaborate and should not contain endorsements or evaluations of the proposed project. Letter of Collaboration Template found here . Review Process and Committees Awards will be announced June 1, 2024 Each Internal Funding Opportunity has its own Review Committee. Each committee is comprised of university faculty and research staff members, and, if feasible, community partners drawn from various disciplines, program areas, and community perspectives will review all proposals and make award recommendations. The final funding, and award decisions will be made by the Vice Provost for Research. The committee will evaluate, score, and rank each eligible proposal according to the following merit criteria: Significance Approach/Project Design Innovation Goals and Objectives Project Outcomes Investigator(s) Qualifications Award Management The Joseph P. Healey Grants are administered in accordance with established university fiscal procedures and policies relating to the conduct of sponsored programs. The anticipated project period will be from July 1, 2024, to December 31, 2025.  All budget expenditures and project activities must occur within the project period. The following conditions are made to all awards and must be adhered to by each recipient: A final project report must be submitted via email by December 31, 2025 , summarizing grant activities, expenditures, and outcomes. Please access the ORSP internal grants page to access the most up-to-date final report template. One copy of submitted, published, or conference papers and facsimiles or descriptions of artistic creations that result from the project activities must be emailed when they become available. All publications resulting from the grant project and all narratives associated with exhibitions or performances of works resulting from the grant project must acknowledge the assistance of the Joseph P. Healey Research Grant program of the University of Massachusetts Boston. Aggregator Internal Submission Guide UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms