The Center of Excellence for Veterans - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni The Center of Excellence for Veterans Home The Center of Excellence for Veterans Menu menu Menu Applying As A Veteran Our Partners Resources & Support Office of Veterans Affairs 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 USA Phone: 617.287.6100 You served our country. Let us serve you. Welcome to the Center of Excellence for Veterans At UMass Boston we are dedicated to serving veterans and their dependents by providing unparalleled service. More than 600 veterans are enrolled at the University. Our Center of Excellence for Veterans is made possible by our partners at the Satter Foundation. The Center includes support and resources to help our veterans and their dependents succeed, provided by the following offices: The Office of Veterans Affairs guides students from application through graduation and beyond. Professional staff members, who also are veterans, support students’ academic success and provide assistance with military transfer credits, financial and benefit information, as well as professional networking. The William Joiner Institute aims to create equitable policies that promote the safety and success of veterans, their dependents, and all others impacted by war or military service, relying on research and the support of veterans past and present. The Student Veterans’ Center is a student-run center providing a wide range of resources and information on veteran issues and supports the UMass Boston veteran student population. Accessing Military Benefits GreenZone training available This training is designed to familiarize participants with the veteran student experience and to support their success as they transition from military service to UMass Boston community members. Our Partners Thank you to the Jack Satter Foundation for their support of the UMass Boston Student Veterans Success Project (2019-2021). The Center of Excellence for Veterans Office of Veterans Affairs 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.5890 Office of Veterans Affairs 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 USA Phone: 617.287.6100 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms