David.Pantalone - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory David.Pantalone David Pantalone Department: CLA - Dean's Office Title: Associate Dean, CLA Location: Wheatley Hall Floor 02 Phone: 617.287.6529 Send Email Area of Expertise Clinical health psychology; HIV prevention and treatment; substance abuse; sexual and gender minority health disparities; cognitive behavior therapy; dialectical behavior therapy Degrees PhD, University of Washington AB, Brown University Professional Publications & Contributions Professional Publications & Contributions Mimiaga, M. J., Pantalone, D. W. , Biello, K. B., White Hughto, J. M., Frank. J., O'Cleirigh, C., Reisner, S. L., Restar, A., Mayer, K. H., & Safren, S. A. (2019). An initial randomized controlled trial of behavioral activation for treatment of concurrent crystal methamphetamine dependence and sexual risk for HIV acquisition among men who have sex with men. AIDS Care, 31 (9), 1083-1095. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2019.1595518 Pantalone, D. W. , Holloway, I. W., Goldblatt, A. E. A., Gorman, K. R., Herbitter, C., & Grov, C. (2020). The impact of pre-exposure prophylaxis on sexual communication and sexual behavior of urban gay and bisexual men. Archives of Sexual Behavior, 49 (1), 147-160. Pantalone, D. W. , Nelson, K. M., Batchelder, A. W., Chiu, C., Gunn, H. A., & Horvath, K. J. (2020). A systematic review and meta-analysis of combination behavioral interventions co-targeting psychosocial syndemics and HIV-related health behaviors for sexual minority men. Journal of Sex Research (Annual Review of Sex Research), 57 (6), 681-708. Hughto, J. M. W., Gunn, H. A., Rood, B. A., & Pantalone, D. W. (2020). Social and medical gender affirmation experiences are inversely associated with mental health problems in a U.S. non-probability sample of transgender adults. Archives of Sexual Behavior, 49 (7), 2635-2647. doi: 10.1007/s10508-020-01655-5 Bogart, L. M., Barreras, J., Gonzalez, A., Klein, D. J., Marsh, T., & Pantalone, D. W. (2021). Pilot randomized controlled trial of an intervention to improve coping and medication adherence among HIV-positive Latinx sexual minority men. AIDS and Behavior, 25 (6), 1647-1660. doi: 10.1007/s10461-020-03081-z Grov, C., Westmoreland, D. A., D’Angelo, A., & Pantalone, D. W. (2021). How has HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) changed sex? A review of research in a new era of bio-behavioral HIV prevention. Journal of Sex Research (Annual Review of Sex Research), 58 (7), 891-913. doi: 10.1080/00224499.2021.1936440 Nakamura, N., Dispenza, F., Abreu, R. L., Ollen, E. W., Pantalone, D. W. , Canillas, G., Gormley, B., & Vencill, J. A. (2022). The APA Guidelines for Psychological Practice with Sexual Minority Persons: An Executive Summary of the 2021 Revision. American Psychologist, 77 (8), 953–962. doi: 10.1037/amp0000939 Herbitter, C., Vaughan, M. D., & Pantalone, D. W. (2024). Mental health provider bias and clinical competence in addressing asexuality, consensual non-monogamy, and BDSM: A narrative review. Sexual and Relationship Therapy, 39 (1), 131-154. doi: 10.1080/14681994.2021.1969547 Additional Information Additional Information * Please note that Dr. Pantalone will not be admitting a doctoral student in the current admissions cycle. Dr. Pantalone's research interests include the development and efficacy testing of culturally tailored behavioral interventions, as well as the dissemination and implementation of evidence-based practices, focused on preventing and treating HIV and ameliorating the health disparities of sexual and gender minority (SGM) individuals. His intervention development efforts have included evidence-based approaches for improving mental health symptoms, HIV-related health behaviors, and coping with identity-based discrimination. He has published ~150 peer-reviewed articles and chapters and presented >200 talks and posters at scientific meetings, invited colloquia, guest lectures, and clinical trainings across professional settings in the U.S. and internationally. Much of Dr. Pantalone’s work has focused on the syndemic indicators affecting sexual minority men and people living with HIV—including mental disorders (esp. depression & PTSD), substance abuse (esp. alcohol & stimulants), and interpersonal victimization (esp. childhood sexual abuse & partner abuse). In addition to his work with sexual minority men, Dr. Pantalone has conducted research with a variety of other populations, including women living with HIV, transgender and nonbinary individuals, and adults on the autism spectrum. Dr. Pantalone is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association (APA) and the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies (ABCT). He has won awards from both organizations including the inaugural Mentorship Award from ABCT’s Behavioral Medicine and Integrated Primary Care Special Interest Group (2018) and the annual Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award from APA Division 44 (2021). At UMB, Dr. Pantalone represented UMB as the 2016 ERASMUS Fellow to Poland and won the university’s highest honor for research, the Chancellor's Award for Distinguished Scholarship, in 2023 . Dr. Pantalone has served in a variety of leadership roles in professional organizations. At APA, he was Division 44 President and served as one of eight members on the task force that created the 2021 Guidelines for Psychological Practice with Sexual Minority Persons. At ABCT, he was Chair of the Leadership and Elections Committee and is currently the organization’s board Secretary-Treasurer-Elect. Dr. Pantalone has been on multiple journal editorial boards, including the Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , and has served as Associate Editor of two journals and Guest Editor of three special issues. At UMB, Dr. Pantalone has primarily taught undergraduate courses in human sexuality and graduate courses in psychopathology. He has provided clinical supervision for the clinical psychology doctoral students in their practica at the University Counseling Center. Dr. Pantalone has been an elected member of Faculty Council and served as faculty advisor to the Queer Student Center, among other service roles. Since Fall 2020, Dr. Pantalone has served as Associate Dean of the College of Liberal Arts . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms