Fitness - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Athletics Recreation Fitness Menu menu Menu Recreation Member Services Facilities & Hours Fitness Intramural Sports Informal Recreation Student Employment Instructional Offerings Waterfront Recreation Fitness Fitness The University of Massachusetts Boston's Fitness program is dedicated to the students, alumni, staff, and faculty of UMass Boston. Here you will find a friendly, healthy environment for everybody from the beginning exerciser to the well-conditioned athlete. Whether you are new to exercise or want to take your workouts to the next level, our fitness & wellness program is confident we have the programs and fitness staff that can help you reach your goals! Please take time to check out the Beacon Fitness Center, located on the first floor of McCormack Hall. Need Assistance? Need a spotter? Want to use a jump rope for your workout?  Having trouble finding something? If any assistance is needed in spotting or instruction, or if you’d like to check out any of our fitness equipment to help enhance your workout, feel free to ask one of our Fitness Attendants for help. Rules & Regulations Beacon Fitness Center Rules 2024 Group Fitness Rules The Beacon Fitness Center will close for all university-dictated closings due to weather or other emergencies. For more questions, call 617.287.6786 during operating hours. Group Fitness We offer several different group fitness class styles on a first-come first-served basis. No registration is required, just show up! Instructors are trained to give exercise modifications so that beginners and regular exercises are challenged appropriately. Cycling, Beacon Total Body, Yoga, and Strength and Conditioning are some of our great offerings. All classes are held in the Beacon Fitness Center. See below for the weekly class schedule effective 9/16. Fall 2024 Group Fitness Classes Monday Pop Pilates - 4:30pm with Berline Location: BFC- Aerobics Room A high-energy fitness class that blends the core-strengthening principles of Pilates with the rhythm and excitement of dance. This class will help improve flexibility, build strength, and boost your mood. Get ready to strengthen your body and have fun in a supportive and energetic environment! Cycling - 4:30pm with Jackie Location: BFC - Cycling Room Jump into our Beginner Cycling Class it's perfect for all fitness levels! Get ready for a heart-pumping, beginner-friendly cycling workout. You'll do different cycling exercises for an exciting cardio boost. It's great for newcomers and anyone seeking a fun, energetic workout. Join us and start your journey to a healthier you! Strength & Conditioning - 5:30pm with Thanush Location: BFC - Aerobics Room A group fitness class that focuses on improving total body strength, stamina, and cardiovascular endurance while helping participants improve their range of motion and all-round functional fitness. Class structure: Warmup-> conditioning routine -> core workout ->cool down. TRX - 6:30pm with Angela Location: BFC - Aerobics Room TRX is a form of suspension training that uses bodyweight exercises to develop strength, balance, flexibility and core stability simultaneously. Our classes will move you. Our instructor will inspire you. Modifications are always welcomed in any class. Tuesday Cycling Express - 7:15am with Hannah Location: BFC- Cycling Room 45 minutes! Jump into our Beginner Cycling Class, perfect for all fitness levels! Get ready for a heart-pumping, beginner-friendly cycling workout. You'll do different cycling exercises for an exciting cardio boost. It's great for newcomers and anyone seeking a fun, energetic workout. Join us and start your journey to a healthier you! Total Body - 12:00pm with Sarah Location: BFC - Aerobics Room Total Body is exactly that- a full body workout that combines resistance training with cardio movements in a 45-minute circuit style format. During class we'll warm up, hit upper body, lower body, and core, and cool down with enough time to get back to class or work! Wednesday Cycling - 4:30pm with Maddy Location: BFC - Cycling Room Jump into our Beginner Cycling Class, perfect for all fitness levels! Get ready for a heart-pumping, beginner-friendly cycling workout. You'll do different cycling exercises for an exciting cardio boost. It's great for newcomers and anyone seeking a fun, energetic workout. Join us and start your journey to a healthier you! Pop Pilates - 4:30pm with Berline Location: BFC- Aerobics Room A high-energy fitness class that blends the core-strengthening principles of Pilates with the rhythm and excitement of dance. This class will help improve flexibility, build strength, and boost your mood. Get ready to strengthen your body and have fun in a supportive and energetic environment! Thursday Total Body - 12:00pm with Sarah Location: BFC - Aerobics Room Total Body is exactly that- a full body workout that combines resistance training with cardio movements in a 45-minute circuit style format. During class we'll warm up, hit upper body, lower body, and core, and cool down with enough time to get back to class or work! Cycling - 4:30pm with Maddy Location: BFC - Cycling Room Jump into our Beginner Cycling Class, perfect for all fitness levels! Get ready for a heart-pumping, beginner-friendly cycling workout. You'll do different cycling exercises for an exciting cardio boost. It's great for newcomers and anyone seeking a fun, energetic workout. Join us and start your journey to a healthier you! TRX - 5 :30pm with Angela Location: BFC - Aerobics Room TRX is a form of suspension training that uses bodyweight exercises to develop strength, balance, flexibility and core stability simultaneously. Our classes will move you. Our instructor will inspire you. Modifications are always welcomed in any class. Friday NO CLASSES Personal Training *PT SALES ARE ON HOLD UNTIL WE HIRE A FITNESS MANAGER* Members may purchase personal training packages online. Once you purchase the personal training package you will receive an email within a few days including health history paperwork that must be filled out and sent back. Upon clearance, the Fitness Manager requests the clients availability. Using the client availability and goals the Fitness Manager pairs a client with a personal trainer. At that point a trainer will reach out to you. This process can take up to 48-72 hours All future sessions are scheduled between the client and trainer. Personal Training Packages Type: Fitness Assessment + Program Design (60min each session) Sessions: 2 Cost: $40 Type: One-on-one 30 mins. each session Sessions: 5, 10 Cost: $70, $135 Type: One-on-one 60 mins. each session Sessions: 5, 10 Cost: $115, $215 Type: 2 people 60 mins. each session Sessions: 5, 10 Cost: $86 (each), $163 (each) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms