Resident Assistant - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Housing & Dining On Campus Resident Assistant Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining On Campus About Us Current Residents Floor Plans Room Rates Future Residents Housing FAQs Housing Payment Information Resident Assistant Resident Health Requirements Roommate Resources Spend Your Summer At Umass Boston Summer Conference Housing Meal Plans Off Campus Policies & Forms Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Resident Assistant Thank you for your interest in becoming a Resident Assistant! The application for the 2025-2026 academic year will be available mid-October/early November. Please check back at that time. The below information is from the 2024-2025 academic year. All positions for the 2024-2025 academic year have been filled Resident Assistant Position Overview: Resident Assistants plan and facilitate community and programs and enforce policies and procedures within the residence halls at UMass Boston. Resident Assistants are undergraduate student members in the Office of Housing and Residence Life. They report to and are directly supervised by Community Directors. It is our expectation that the Resident Assistant maintains a high level of involvement in support of the Housing and Residence Life programming model and be an excellent social and academic role model for the residents on the floor. This is a leadership opportunity that provides a room in the residence hall and a meal plan. Resident Assistants are required to live in the residence hall in order to successfully fulfill the expectations of the position. RA Application Process Overview: The application for the 2024-2025 academic year closed on Monday, December 4, 2023 at 5:00pm. RA Information Sessions: Tuesday, October 17 th at 4PM in Campus Center 3545 Wednesday, November 8 th at 5PM via Zoom (link below) Thursday, November 30 th at 6PM in Residence Hall East 157 Zoom Information for November 8 th Info Session: Link: https://umassboston.zoom.us/j/92196027711 Meeting ID: 921 9602 7711 Resume Workshops with Career Services: Tuesday, October 24 th in Residence Hall East 157 at 4PM Wednesday, November 7 th in Residence Hall East 157 at 4PM Interview Skills Workshop with Career Services: Thursday, November 14 th in Residence Hall East 157 at 4PM - POSTPONED, More information TBD Interview & Selection Timeline for 2024-25 Applicants (These dates are subject to change) STEP ONE: Apply Online This is the official application to apply for the RA position. Failure to complete this form on time will make you ineligible to continue in the process. STEP TWO: Online One-Way Interview (deadline: Monday, December 4, 2023 at 5PM) Once you have completed the online application, you will receive a link with instructions via email to complete the one-way online interview through the Willo software (no download needed) STEP THREE: Individual Interview (Invitation Only) - February 2024 The final stage of the RA selection process is an individual interview with Housing and Residential Life staff member(s). Interviews will last approximately 30 minutes. You will be asked a set of questions and will have an opportunity to ask questions at the end. Attendance at this interview is mandatory. Casual attire is acceptable for the interviews. Job Status Notification Offers will be made at the beginning of March via email. There are three possible options at this stage: (1) an offer to become a Resident Assistant for AY24-25; (2) an alternate position for the RA position for AY 24-25; or (3) no offer at this time. All letters, regardless of decision, will be available at the same time. If you would like to discuss your application and/or interview after the process is complete, you may contact the Housing Office . Follow the Office of Housing and Residential Life on Instagram Like the Office of Housing and Residential Life on Facebook Follow our RAs on Instagram Contact On-Campus Housing Office of Housing and Residential Life Residence Hall East, 1st Floor 240 Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA 02125 Hours: M-F 9am-5pm 617.287.6011 housing@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms