Biology - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Biology Home Science & Mathematics Academic Departments Biology Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Biochemistry Computer Science Biology Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Engineering Chemistry Mathematics Physics Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs Research Student Success Center Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Welcome to the Department of Biology UMass Boston's Department of Biology in the College of Science and Mathematics offers dynamic curricula, research opportunities, and mentoring at the undergraduate, Masters, and Ph.D. levels. Our integrative programs foster a deep understanding of biology at the levels of molecules, cells, organisms, and ecosystems. Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Biology BS Biology Minor Environmental Biology Minor Graduate Programs Biology MS Biology PhD Molecular, Cellular and Organismal Biology Track Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Track Biomedical Engineering & Biotechnology PhD Biotechnology & Biomedical Science MS Biotechnology Professional Science MS Computational Sciences PhD Integrative Biosciences PhD Biotechnology Certificate About Our Department Biology is the natural sciences discipline concerned with the study of living organisms; their genetic, cellular, and physiological functions; their development; their evolution; and their interaction with each other and the environment. UMass Boston’s Department of Biology is a vibrant, collaborative research and teaching community. The faculty of the department have diverse interests and experiences that span a wide range of disciplines within the biological sciences, conduct cutting-edge research, and are committed teachers. The undergraduate curricula of the Biology and Biochemistry majors emphasize hands-on practical and laboratory experience, foster critical thinking, and offer numerous opportunities for engagement in research in the life sciences. The department also sponsors multiple research-driven Ph.D. and Masters-level graduate programs, including with other departments on campus. Subscribe to the Biology Undergraduate majors mailing list . Unsubscribe from the Biology Undergraduate majors mailing list. Departmental Achievements Dr. Catherine McCusker and the Woodhams lab have contributed to a new study on Broad host susceptibility of North American amphibian species to Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans suggests high invasion potential and biodiversity risk . Dr. Jarrett Byrnes was recently quoted in an article entitled, “ The Most Mysterious Forests on Earth are Underwater ” on the general interest website Vox . He discussed his own personal experiences diving in kelp forests. Assistant Professor Nichola Hill has received significant media coverage for her research on the global spread of bird flu. The recent expansion of the virus into North America is being studied by the Hill Lab, and their work has been featured by The Guardian , The Boston Globe and Nature News . In collaboration with the Shevchenko lab (Max Planck Institute, Dresden, Germany), the Rister lab studied the effects of vitamin A deficiency on the morphology, lipidome, and proteome of the eye.The publication is part of a Special Issue on ‘ Invertebrates as Emerging Model Organisms in Nutrition Research. ’ The Woodhams lab and collaborators describe rewilding the amphibian microbiome in preparation for reintroductions from captivity in Panama in an article published in Biological Conservation entitled, " Effects of captivity and rewilding on amphibian skin microbiomes ". Uzezi Okinedo , a PhD student in Brook Moyers’ lab, has been awarded the American Association of University Women’s International Fellowship for 2022-2023. Resources Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Initiative For Maximizing Student Development Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Contact Alexa MacPherson Office: W-3-21 Telephone: 617.287.6600 Fax: 617.287.6650 Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms