American Studies Minor - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give American Studies Minor Home Academics Majors & Programs American Studies Minor Declare or Change Your Minor Request Info About UMass Boston Undergraduate Admissions Cultivate your understanding of American history, culture, and society. UMass Boston’s American Studies Minor explores various social, political, and cultural movements throughout the history of America. You’ll learn about the historical significance of empires and the roles of race, gender, class, and sexuality in American culture and society. Professors in this program employ a range of historical, theoretical, and methodological approaches to examine these areas of the United States. Through skills like cultural competency and social awareness, you’ll deepen your understanding of the diverse experiences that shape the United States. You’ll emerge from the program ready to contribute to positive social change, pursue a career in politics, or leverage your insights as an educator. Expand Your Studies How To Apply/Declare Current Undergraduate Students: Declare or change your minor by completing an Undergraduate Program Add/Change form Prospective Undergraduate Students: Apply for admission to UMass Boston by completing an application. Start by reviewing the first-year and transfer application pages for important information about requirements, deadlines, and application status checks. Use the links below to apply: Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Curriculum Introductory Course (3 Credits) AMST 100 - American Identities 3 Credit(s) OR AMST 110G - US Society and Culture since 1945 4 Credit(s) Survey Course (3 Credits) AMST 210 - American Society and Culture, 1600-1860 3 Credit(s) OR AMST 211 - U.S. Society and Culture, 1860-1940 3 Credit(s) Methods Intensive Course (3 Credits) Take one course from the list below. AMST 101 - Popular Culture in America 3 Credit(s) AMST 201L - Imagining Latinidad: Historical Trajectories and Everyday Lives 3 Credit(s) AMST 203 - The Thirties 3 Credit(s) AMST 206 - The Sixties 3 Credit(s) AMST 209 - The 1990s 3 Credit(s) AMST 215L - America on Film 3 Credit(s) AMST 250 - U.S. Travel and Tourism 3 Credit(s) AMST 278L - U.S. Documentary Photography 3 Credit(s) AMST 285L - Food in American Culture 3 Credit(s) American Studies Track Courses (6 Credits) Complete two courses from one of the track areas below. Media and Culture : AMST 101 - Popular Culture in America 3 Credit(s) AMST 215L - America on Film 3 Credit(s) AMST 235 - The Social History of Popular Music 3 Credit(s) AMST 250 - U.S. Travel and Tourism 3 Credit(s) AMST 278L - U.S. Documentary Photography 3 Credit(s) AMST 285L - Food in American Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 310 - Television in American Life 3 Credit(s) AMST 335 - Music And Politics 3 Credit(s) AMST 352L - Harlem Renaissance 3 Credit(s) AMST 355L - Black Popular Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 375 - Best Sellers in American Society 3 Credit(s) Social Movements and Identity Formation : AMST 206 - The Sixties 3 Credit(s) AMST 209 - The 1990s 3 Credit(s) AMST 212G - The US in the Eighties 3 Credit(s) AMST 223L - Asians in the United States 3 Credit(s) AMST 228L - Asian Women in the United States 3 Credit(s) AMST 270L - Native Peoples of North America 3 Credit(s) AMST 325L - Sexual Identities in American Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 350L - Race, Class, and Gender: Issues in US Diversity 3 Credit(s) AMST 352L - Harlem Renaissance 3 Credit(s) AMST 353L - Borderlands, Diasporas, and Transnational Identities 3 Credit(s) AMST 355L - Black Popular Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 360 - Work, Society, and Culture in Modern America 3 Credit(s) Migration and Empire : AMST 201L - Imagining Latinidad: Historical Trajectories and Everyday Lives 3 Credit(s) AMST 203 - The Thirties 3 Credit(s) AMST 225L - Southeast Asians in the United States 3 Credit(s) AMST 240G - War in American Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 250 - U.S. Travel and Tourism 3 Credit(s) AMST 270L - Native Peoples of North America 3 Credit(s) AMST 285L - Food in American Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 353L - Borderlands, Diasporas, and Transnational Identities 3 Credit(s) Elective (3 Credits) Complete an additional AMST course. Capstone Course (3 Credits) Complete one course from the list below. AMST 402L - History of US Visual Media 3 Credit(s) AMST 405 - The Immigrant Experience 3 Credit(s) AMST 410 - Cultural History of U.S. Media 3 Credit(s) AMST 430 - Music & Amer Lit 3 Credit(s) AMST 440L - United States in a Global Context 3 Credit(s) AMST 471L - The City in American Literature and Culture 3 Credit(s) Track There are three tracks to choose from within the American Studies Minor program. The three tracks are: Media and Culture Social Movements and Identity Formation Migration and Empire To pursue a track, you'll take two courses (six credits) from one of the track areas. Completion Requirements Complete 18 credits from six courses, including one introductory course, one survey course, two courses from one of the three American Studies tracks, one elective, and a capstone. Pass/fail: No more than one course taken pass/fail may be applied toward the minor. Residency: At least four courses for the minor must be completed at UMass Boston. Course level: At least three courses applied toward the minor must be at the 300-level or higher (including the capstone). Independent study: No more than one independent study may be applied toward the minor. Contact Holly Jackson, Department Chairman American Studies Wheatley Hall, 06, 00052 Holly.Jackson [@] umb.edu American Studies Department UMass Boston's Department of American Studies in the College of Liberal Arts cultivates an understanding of US social, political, and cultural movements; the place of empire within US history; the role of race, gender, class, sexuality, and empire  in US culture and society; and the history, theories, and methods used to examine these areas. Explore the Department of American Studies College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore the College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Declare or Change Your Minor Request Info About UMass Boston Undergraduate Admissions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms