- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2022 CEHD Professor Receives Early Career Award from Am Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications CEHD Professor Receives Early Career Award from American Educational Research Association 04/06/2022 |
    Crystal Valencia Assistant Professor of Urban Education, Leadership, and Policy Studies Abiola Farinde-Wu has received the American Educational Research Association’s Division K Early Career Award for her inspiring, high quality, and impactful research on recruiting and retaining Black teachers. “ To be recognized by my peers and the academic community for my scholarship is both humbling and mind-blowing. ” Honoring exemplary research and service in the education research field, the Early Career Award is given once a year to a scholar who received their doctoral degree within the past 10 years. “When I found out I received the award, I was awestruck, elated, a bit in disbelief. As researchers, we all try to engage in meaningful, impactful, and powerful work for the public good,” she said. “To be recognized by my peers and the academic community for my scholarship is both humbling and mind-blowing. I hope that Black and Brown women in academia see my picture and think if she can do it, so can I.” Dr. Farinde-Wu has been engaging in research, teaching, and service with UMass Boston since 2017. She also serves as the program director for the Urban Education, Leadership, and Policy Studies doctoral program in the Department of Leadership in Education . Her scholarship explores the experiences of teachers and students of color, with an emphasis on Black women and girls. She is interested in the schooling experiences of Black women and girls and their educational and life outcomes. The nominating committee noted that Dr. Farinde-Wu purposefully connects her scholarship and teaching to provide race-conscious teacher education. “Her use of innovative frameworks and approaches, including Black feminist epistemology and a whole career-span perspective is not only relevant to teacher recruitment and retention, but also to supporting equitable learning opportunities for all students in schools,” they wrote. Dr. Farinde-Wu has new publications coming out this year. She co-edited a book, Mentoring While White: Culturally Responsive Practices for Sustaining the Lives of Black College Students , with Drs. Bettie Ray Butler and Melissa Winchell. Mentoring While White provides white college faculty (and others) guidance, strategies, and insights into mentoring their Black students in hopes of improving Black students’ higher education experiences and post-secondary outcomes. She has also co-authored an in-press manuscript titled Advancing a Holistic Trauma Framework for Collective Healing from Colonial Abuses with Dr. Adam Alvarez , which will be published in AERA Open. She uses the holistic trauma framework that she developed with Dr. Alvarez to inform her investigation of trauma-informed Black feminist pedagogical strategies and practices that Black women educators (BWE) use in their classrooms and examines what lessons teacher preparation can glean from the praxis of Black women educators. Dr. Farinde-Wu will be celebrated at AERA’s annual meeting in April. She was nominated by her graduate school faculty at UNCC, with whom she has remained in contact through the years. “I have immense respect for the UNCC College of Education’s faculty, their personhood and research,” she said. “They are committed to the work and their past, present, and future students.” Founded in 1916, AERA is the largest national interdisciplinary research association devoted to the scientific study of education and learning. Its 25,000-plus members include faculty, researchers, university deans, research directors, and higher education administrators. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms