Advising - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Advising Advising by Area of Study menu Advising by Area of Study Undeclared Undergraduate Advising Advising by College Connect with an Advisor Additional Advising Resources Advising Toolbox How Undergraduate Advising Works at UMass Boston Advising helps you to find the right program, choose the courses you want and need to take, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. Meeting with your advisor will make your academic journey easier. At UMass Boston, undergraduates who haven't declared a major meet with advisors in Academic & Career Engagement & Success (ACES). Undergraduates who have declared a major receive advising through their college. Management majors continue with ACES advising until they reach 60 credits then move to College of Management advising. Students may also work with other areas including Student Support Services, the Honors College, Asian American Resource Office and the International Students and Scholars Office. Our Promise, Your Journey Advising works best as a collaborative experience. The Office for Advising Excellence at UMass Boston is committed to empowering students and advisors across campus. Students can access advising connections, academic resources, and tools needed to both define their goals and achieve them. Additionally, advisor professional development, training, and necessary resources will enable advisors to provide the highest level of support to students. Advising by Area of Study menu Advising by Area of Study Undeclared Undergraduate Advising Advising by College Connect with an Advisor Additional Advising Resources Advising Toolbox Find Your Advisor via Your College Education & Human Development Majors The Office of Student Success is responsible for providing services to current students in terms of program information, programmatic and academic advising, and university, college and program requirements. Environment & Urban Planning Majors SFE students schedule advising appointment by emailing their faculty advisor; or meet with the program advisor. Liberal Arts Majors CLA Advising provides professional advising services to declared Liberal Arts majors, and connects students with faculty advisors, too.  The CLA First! and CLA SophoMORE programs provide advising to students in those academic success programs. Management Majors All College of Management students with more than 60 credits or who are part of the LEAD, TRAIL, or 3YD program are advised in the College of Management Undergraduate Program Office (UPO). Nursing & Health Sciences Majors The Student Success and Engagement Office in the Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences provides advising for all Nursing programs, Aging Studies, Exercise and Health Sciences and Urban Public Health. Science & Math Majors Students in the College of Science and Mathematics work with the CSM Student Success Center to address their academic advising needs. Students also work with faculty advisors in their major. Undeclared Undergraduate Advising with ACES Academic & Career Engagement & Success (ACES) offers advising for students who have not yet declared a major, or who have below 60 credits in a Management major. In all majors, connect with ACES for career advising and support. Make an Appointment with ACES Frequently Asked Questions Your question may be here – check out our informative answers! Check Out Advising FAQs Additional Advising Resources Providing extra layers of support for students connected to these programs, valuable information can be found at each link.  Students who are already connected and those looking to connect are welcome to explore! Student Support Services Honors College Asian American Resource Office Global Programs Connect with Advising Offices Get details on hours of operation and ways to connect with advising staff across campus. Dedicated staff are here to help you! All Academic Advising Offices Email Us Office for Advising Excellence Campus Center, 1 st floor, Suite 1300.04-06 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3390 Phone : 617.287.7897 Email : advising@umb.edu Email Advising UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms