Departments & Centers - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home The Manning College Departments & Centers Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Nursing Exercise & Health Sciences Gerontology Urban Public Health Center for Clinical Education & Research Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us The Manning College Departments & Centers Departments One of the fastest-growing colleges on UMass Boston's vibrant harbor campus, the Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences is known for its academic rigor, rich clinical and internship experiences and research.  We are the only public research university in metropolitan Boston offering high quality academic programs combined with research and practice in the fields of aging, exercise, physical activity and health sciences, nursing and public health, with a focus on health equity. Exercise & Health Sciences Gerontology Nursing Urban Public Health The Department of Exercise and Health Sciences offers pre-health foundations for a variety of fields in physical activity, exercise, and allied health. The BS in Exercise and Health Sciences, created to meet the needs of students interested in pursuing a variety of pre-health careers in physical therapy, occupational therapy, physician assistant, chiropractic medicine, nursing, sports medicine, wellness, and exercise physiology.  There are  two programs of graduate studies leading to the Master of Science (MS) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees, respectively. The program’s goals will enhance the career growth potential of our students, whether they choose to apply their knowledge and skills for pursuit of an advanced degree, a research-related career, or a professional position in the health field. The Department of Gerontology features one of the oldest doctoral programs in the world, producing more gerontology PhDs than any other institution. The doctoral program provides advanced training and research in gerontology within an interdisciplinary framework, bridging theories, concepts, and research methods drawn primarily from the social and behavioral sciences. Our department also offers a Management of Aging Services master’s degree, a gerontology graduate certificate, and an undergraduate major, minor, and certificate in Aging Studies. The Department of Nursing , is home to our traditional BS program, accelerated BS program, and Online RN-to-BS program prepares students for professional nursing practice.   A pioneer in innovative post-graduate nurse education, our MS in Nursing program offers Family Nurse Practitioner and Adult Gerontological Nurse Practitioner and concentrations. The Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Program interweaves coursework in health systems leadership, policy development, and interdisciplinary collaboration to prepare advanced practice nurses with transformational leadership skills in program development and policy change. The Ph.D. Program in Nursing, with concentrations in Health Policy and Population Health, prepares graduates for leadership positions as policy analysts, researchers, and educators. The Department of Urban Public Health offers a BS designed for future leaders who aim to promote health and health equity in urban populations. Students are prepared with knowledge of public health science, education, and practice.  They gain an understanding of socio-economic and cultural diversity among people in urban settings with hands-on learning in real-world experiences including community settings, governmental agencies, private sector, and health organizations. The Manning College also offers an Addictions Counselor Education Program (ACEP) Certificate, which focuses on developing professional skills to promote evidence-based treatment of Substance Use Disorders. It’s designed for treatment professionals — from direct care counselors to program directors. Centers & Institutes The Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences is home to several centers and institutes; Center for Clinical Education and Research , where students can treat lifelike simulated patients in surroundings that duplicate actual hospital conditions, and their performances can be recorded for later review and discussion with faculty members; Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging , which conducts applied research aimed at addressing the wellbeing of New England's older residents, most often in partnership with local communities; Gerontology Institute , which carries out basic and applied social and economic research on aging and engages in public education on aging policy issues, with an emphasis in income security, long-term services and supports, healthy aging, age-friendly communities, and social and demographic research on aging; LeadingAge LTSS Center @UMass Boston , which conducts research designed to help our nation address the challenges and seize the opportunities associated with a growing older population. Osher Lifelong Learning Institute , which provides lifelong learning, trips, and social activities for people aged 50 and older; Pension Action Center , which offers counseling on pension rights and legal assistance in tracking down lost benefits. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms