Software for Faculty & Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Software & Systems Software for Faculty & Staff Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems WISER Email Password CloudPC Docusign Electronic Signature Software for Faculty & Staff Student IT Discounts Wifi Aira Accessibility Technology Telecom Mathematica Admin Systems Services for Alumni Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Software for Faculty & Staff The University of Massachusetts has licensed many popular software titles and made them available free or at a nominal cost for faculty and staff. To purchase most of these applications visit https://umb.onthehub.com/ Software purchases on On the Hub can be made with university departmental “SpeedType codes”, credit card, or PayPal. Software Listing Microsoft Office | Visio | Project | Windows 10 | Stata 18 | SPSS 29 | AMOS 29 | Matlab | Mathematica | SAS 9.4 | NVivo | Atlas.ti | MAXQDA | Adobe Acrobat Pro DC | Adobe Creative Cloud | Autodesk | VMWare | Schrodinger | PyMOL | Qualtrics | Read&Write Gold Office 2019 and Office 365 Includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, OneNote, OneDrive, Microsoft Teams, and more. Note Microsoft Access is exclusive to Windows. More information on Microsoft Office Download Office Professional 2019 for PC for Free Download Office Standard 2019 for Mac for Free Download Office 365 for Free Visio Transform the way you use and visualize data so you can bring your best ideas to life. More information on Visio Visio is free for educators and students through Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching . Email ITServiceDesk@umb.edu for instructions. For all other other users, Visio can be purchased directly from GovConnection.com or via our BuyWays System. Once the desired application is purchased, send the proof of purchase to ITServiceDesk@umb.edu . You will receive a link to download the application. Project Tackle anything from small projects to large initiatives with this powerful, easy-to-use app. More information on Project Project is free for educators and students through Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching. Email ITServiceDesk@umb.edu for instructions. For all other other users, Project can be purchased directly from GovConnection.com or via our BuyWays System. Once the desired application is purchased, send the proof of purchase to ITServiceDesk@umb.edu . You will receive a link to download the application. Windows 10 Enterprise Microsoft's flagship operating system. More information on Windows 10 . Download Windows 10 Enterprise for Free Make sure to backup your system before upgrading to Windows 10. STATA 18 Fast. Accurate. Easy to use. Stata is a complete, integrated software package that provides all your data science needs—data manipulation, visualization, statistics, and automated reporting. More information on STATA Purchase STATA 18 $30 for yearly rental of license (expires 8/1/24). STATA can only be installed on university-owned computers. STATA for personally-owned computers can be purchased on their site SPSS 29 IBM® SPSS® Statistics is a powerful statistical software platform. It offers a user-friendly interface and a robust set of features that lets your organization quickly extract actionable insights from your data. More information about SPSS $30 for yearly rental of license (expires 7/31/25). SPSS can only be installed on university-owned computers and for teaching, learning, and academic research. A separate license for personally-owned computers is available. Please email ITServiceDesk@umb.edu for details. Personal licenses also availble through onthehub.com . Purchase SPSS 29 AMOS 29 Deepen your analysis with structural equation modeling. More information about AMOS Purchase AMOS 29 $30 for yearly rental of license (expires 7/31/25). AMOS can only be installed on university-owned computers. MATLAB + Simulink + 16  Toolboxes MATLAB is a high-level language and interactive environment that enables you to perform computationally intensive tasks faster than with traditional programming languages such as C, C++, and Fortran. More information on Matlab Sign in to get Started Or Download for Free Mathematica Mathematica is a software package which is ideal for communicating scientific ideas, whether this is visualization of a concept in an intro-level course, or creating a simulation of a new idea related to research. More information on Mathematica Mathematica installation instructions Or Download for Free SAS 9.4 Workstation for Windows State-of-the-art analytics is essential for teaching and academic research in this age of technology. That's why SAS offers th a bundle of SAS® analytical software – at a substantial discount to the academic community. More information about SAS Statistics $25 for yearly rental of license (expires 6/30/25). SAS can only be installed on Windows computers. Free online version available through SAS OnDemand for Academics NVivo Our world is exploding with data – text, videos, social media and more. Making sense of it without the right research tools is like looking for a needle in a haystack. See the big picture fast with NVivo – the most powerful software for gaining richer insights from qualitative and mixed-methods data. More information on NVivo Download NVivo 12, 13, or 14 Atlas.ti ATLAS.ti helps you uncover actionable insights with intuitive and automatic research tools powered by the latest AI and machine learning algorithms with best-in-class technology. Built for every need: from basic analysis tasks to the most in-depth research projects. More about Atlas.ti Contact Research Computing ( it-rc@umb.edu ) to request an activation code and download link. Note that we have limited licenses and may not be able to fulfill your request. Student licenses are available at here . MAXQDA MAXQDA is a software program designed for computer-assisted qualitative and mixed methods data, text and multimedia analysis in academic, scientific, and business institutions. More about MAXQDA Contact Research Computing ( it-rc@umb.edu ) to request an activation code and download link. Note that we have limited licenses and may not be able to fulfill your request. Adobe Acrobat Pro DC Create and edit PDF files. More information on Adobe Acrobat Pro DC Download Adobe Acrobat Pro DC for Free Adobe Creative Cloud Use Adobe Creative Cloud to install Acrobat, Photoshop, Illustrator, inDesign, After Effects, Premiere, and more. More information on Adobe Creative Cloud Purchase Adobe Creative Cloud $15 for yearly rental of license Autodesk UMass Boston professors and students can access Autodesk software, including Inventor Professional, AutoCAD, 3ds Max, Fusion 360, and Maya, for personal and educational use. The Autodesk program includes free teaching and learning resources. For questions, see the Autodesk Frequently Asked Questions page Sign up for Autodesk VMWare Workstation and VMWare Fusion We do not carry VMWare. However the basic version is available for free through their web site. Download VMWare for free on Mac *Note that using VMWare to run Windows will not work on Macs with the new M processor. Download VMWare for free on Windows VMWare Full Version If you need the full version of VMWare, you can purchase it through their web store: Purchase VMWare Full Version $119 for a perpetual license, $59 for upgrades. Schrodinger Schrödinger’s Suite is a software package that can be used for lead discovery and lead optimization in the context of drug discovery; atomic-scale simulation of chemical systems; modeling biologics, antibodies, and proteins; and production of stunning high-performance molecular graphics for communicating structural results. Also available for Linux More information on Schrodinger Contact IT-RC@umb.edu for a license. PyMOL PyMOL is a cross-platform molecular graphic tool and has been widely used for 3D visualization of macromolecules. The utilities of PyMOL have been extensively enhanced by various plugins, including macromolecular analysis, homology modeling, protein–ligand docking, pharmacophore modeling, VS, and MD simulations. These features facilitate PyMOL as a platform for modern computational drug design. More information about PyMOL Contact IT-RC@umb.edu for a license. Qualtrics Qualtrics is a web-based survey software available to any UMass Boston faculty, staff or student for free. More information about Qualtrics For instructions on getting your account, email Qualtrics.Support@umb.edu from your UMass Boston email account. Log in to Qualtrics here: umassboston.qualtrics.com Read & Write Gold Read and Write GOLD is the world's leading literacy support software designed to assist users of all ages who require extra assistance when reading or composing text. More information on Read&Write Gold Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms