Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Governance - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Global Governance Home The McCormack School Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Governance Menu menu Menu Academics Research Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Governance Research & Impact Faculty & Staff Resources Public Policy & Public Affairs Welcome to the Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security and Global Governance If you value practical experience, civic responsibility and academic excellence we invite you to explore our internationally-ranked graduate programs and pioneering work of our faculty and research centers. Request Info Apply Academic Programs Graduate Programs Conflict Resolution Certificate in person study Conflict Resolution Certificate online study Conflict Resolution MA Global Governance & Human Security MA Global Governance & Human Security PhD International Relations MA Accelerated Master's Conflict Resolution BA/MA International Relations BA/MA Accelerated Master’s Programs (AMP) Earn a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in as little as five years. Explore Accelerated Master's Programs About Our Department Want to improve the planet and help communities?  We can help. Learn to manage conflict, build security, and govern local and global organizations through our programs.  Collaborate with our faculty who are internationally-recognized scholars and practitioners in fields spanning conflict resolution, human security and global governance. More about our research areas Take a Class Start earning credits by taking a class as a non-degree student. This allows you to assess the content and structure of the program before applying. These graduate-level credits can transfer to one of our graduate degrees (restrictions apply). About Taking a Class This is a great way to "sample" the programs before applying and evaluate whether it meets your goals and interests. You must have a bachelor's degree to enroll and if you earn a B or better, and are later admitted to one of the degree programs listed below, the credits will count towards degree (maximum of 6 credits allowed). Conflict Resolution MA Conflict Resolution graduate certificate (in person, online, hybrid) Global Governance and Human Security MA International Relations MA Visit the Bursar’s website to research costs. All courses are subject to regular session rate and New England regional rate is not applicable for non-degree students. Please visit the Registrar's website for more information regarding non-degree registration or contact conresglobal@umb.edu. Take a Class Options If you value practical experience, civic responsibility and academic excellence we invite you to explore our internationally-ranked graduate programs and the pioneering work of our faculty and research centers. Contact conresglobal@umb.edu for more information. Examples of what might be offered: Introductory (Conflict Resolution) Theory . This course examines the theories and assumptions underpinning the practice of negotiation and mediation. It identifies the major schools of thought that influence models in practice and shape research agendas. It examines theories critically, with three aims-uncovering implicit assumptions of practice, testing those assumptions against empirical evidence or other theories, and gleaning insights to assist practitioners. Theories of International Relations This course provides students with an introduction to the major explanatory theories and core concepts that define international relations as a field of study. It identifies key agents, examines the historical evolution of international systems, and describes processes and institutions that contribute to various forms of international conflict and its resolution. This course provides a foundation for more specialized course in international relations. Issues in World Politics This seminar focuses on contemporary policy problems relevant to world politics. A critical examination of these global policy problems permits the application of key concepts and theories of international relations from a variety of different perspectives at the domestic, national, and international levels. Typically, this course focuses on selected regions or issues as illustrations of broader themes in world affairs. Global Governance 'Global governance'' refers both to something empirical -- ''what (limited) world government we have'' -- and to an approach to the study of global problems, one that highlights the economic and cultural contexts of political globalization and foregrounds the questions of whether and how current processes can be made more effective. Students will become familiar with the variety of theoretical approaches to global governance and knowledgeable about its context, including the globalization of industrial capitalism in which global governance emerged, and about its empirics, what it is today. Students' final papers and in-class presentations will investigate the prospects for reform of global governance in an issue area of their choice. African Conflict This class will review the problems of state development in Africa, and the extent to which democratic solutions and conflict resolution approaches can resolve those problems.  We will do so by examining two broad themes in the literature on African politics:  political structures and political cultures.  Political structures are the formal systems and institutions created to govern these states, and we will spend most of our time looking at democratic institutions and the governance problems they face.  Political cultures, on the other hand, are the informal patterns of political behavior shared by groups of people within these states, which reflect the values and experiences shared by these groups to some degree.  Although formal institutions may democratize, the patterns of political behavior (political cultures) change more slowly, posing a number of dilemmas for proponents of democratic solutions to Africa's problems of governance. Negotiation The course focuses on examining the relationship between gender, violent conflict, security and peacebuilding. In this class, we will consider how do gender stereotypes influence the ways that we think about conflict and peacebuilding. How can gender as a relational category, among race, class nationality and others be used for the analysis of inequalities? The overall goal will be to gain an understanding of the gendered dimensions of conflict and peacebuilding and explore programmic approaches by working on case studies that elucidate. these complexities. Global Health and Development The course examines the evolution, key concepts and practice of global health as an emergent field. It is concerned with engaging and exploring the dominant themes, key relationships, and central questions that radiate from the trans-disciplinary field of global health. The aim is for students to critically engage the global public health questions and concerns introduced in the course. Students will apply analytical thinking skills to understand a range of global public health and development problems and trends, implications, and responses. International Development This course examines the major concepts and theories necessary for a critical understanding of the social, political, and economic problems and possibilities facing countries in their quest for development. While exploring the domestic determinants of development, the course also considers the role of international institutions and the most powerful countries in shaping the policy options of developing countries, with particular attention to the process of globalization as a recent contributor to the problem of underdevelopment. Transform Learning into Action Our centers and projects conduct innovative research and provide students with opportunities to gain hands on skills. Center for Peace Democracy & Development Beacon2Beacon - Student Mediation Team Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration Resources Upcoming Events Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Impact Contact Us Main office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Room 128A Phone: (617) 287-7489 Email: conresglobal@umb.edu Department Administrator: Jason Fasano Email: jason.fasano@umb.edu Summer Programs Is this what is closed? We offer academically rich summer programs focusing on Community Peace Building and Conflict Transformation Across Borders where you can earn up to 6 credits towards a master's degree. There are no prerequisites for these programs and advanced undergraduates will be considered. Contact conresglobal@umb.edu for more info. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms