MCAT Preparation - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Student Success Center Pre Med MCAT Preparation Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Research Student Success Center Math Placement Academic Support Degree Planning Meet With Your Advisor Faculty Resources First Year STEM Communities Pre Med MCAT Preparation Pre Health Student Organizations Premedical Enrichment Programs Premedical Volunteer Opportunities Career & Research Opportunities Purposeful Pathways Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy MCAT Preparation What is the MCAT? The Medical College Admission Test® (MCAT®) is a standardized, multiple-choice examination designed to assess students’ problem solving, critical thinking, and knowledge of natural, behavioral, and social science concepts and principles prerequisite to the study of medicine (AAMC) . The exam covers 4 topics: Biological and Biochemical Foundations of Living Systems Chemical and Physical Foundations of Biological Systems Psychological, Social, and Biological Foundations of Behavior Critical Analysis and Reasoning Skills Click here for more information about what is covered on the exam. When should I take the MCAT? Most students plan to take the MCAT in the year they submit their application to medical school. Students may choose to take it earlier if they think they may need to take the exam multiple times. Students should also make sure they have completed introductory-level coursework in biology, general and organic chemistry, and physics, as well as first-semester biochemistry, psychology, and sociology before they take the exam. It takes approximately 1 month to receive exam scores. Click here to see upcoming exam dates. How do I register for the MCAT? There are 2 opening registration dates for the MCAT: October (for dates in January and March - June), and February (for dates in July - September). Click here to see upcoming deadlines. Students register for the MCAT on the AAMC website . Click here to watch a video about how to register for the MCAT. How much does it cost to take the MCAT? It costs $320 to register for the MCAT exam. However, there is a fee assistance program that allows qualifying students register at a reduced fee of $130. How can I prepare to take the MCAT? There are a number of free resources to help you prepare for the MCAT exam, including: Free Sample Test (230 questions) in the MCAT Official Prep Hub Khan Academy videos and practice questions The MCAT Sample Question Guide (3 questions from each of the 4 sections) The Princeton Review Full-Length Practice Test The Princeton Review 10-Question Assessment MCAT Quiz Students can also access low-cost practice exams, question sets, and print products here . Please see a video about preparing for the MCAT here. I completed the MCAT, why do I have so many scores? Students receive 5 exam scores : one for each of the four sections and one combined total score. The total score ranges from 472 to 528. The midpoint is 500. Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms