- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Mayor Appoints UMass Boston Professor to Human Rig Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Mayor Appoints UMass Boston Professor to Human Rights Commission 02/04/2020 |
    Office of Communications Reyes Coll-Tellechea Previously Served on Diversity Task Force Professor of Latin American and Iberian Studies Reyes Coll-Tellechea, center, with City Clerk Maureen Feeney and the Hon. Leslie Harris Boston Mayor Marty Walsh has appointed Professor of Latin American and Iberian Studies Reyes Coll-Tellechea and six others to the city’s reactivated Human Rights Commission, which has a special focus on immigration. "As attacks on human rights continue from the highest levels of our country, here in Boston, we're committed to preserving and advancing human rights, including in our immigrant communities," Walsh said. "I'm proud to appoint these seven members to the Human Rights Commission. Their backgrounds and experiences make them uniquely qualified to serve in these roles, and will make a real difference in the lives of our residents.” The author and editor of several books, Professor Coll-Tellechea’s research reflects on the experience of marginalization, exclusion and discrimination as represented in literature, as well as on some of the strategies used by the powerful to exclude others from their privileges. She served on the mayor’s Transition Task Force (Human Services) and the City of Boston’s Diversity Task Force, and she frequently volunteers as a translator and interpreter for Massachusetts nonprofits working with immigrants and refugees. The commission hasn’t been active since 1996. Walsh has charged the reactivated commission to pay special attention to the needs of Boston's immigrant communities. Both state and federal law provide legal protections and mandate that certain basic services be provided to all people, regardless of their immigration status. Coll-Tellechea considers herself an “American by choice.” Born in Spain, she arrived in the United States with limited English skills. “The city and citizens of Boston welcomed and protected me at a time of great personal uncertainty. It is now my turn to help take care of the city. I am ready, happy and proud to serve the city,” Coll-Tellechea said. The seven-member commission has the power to conduct hearings and call witnesses, and can issue reports and the results of investigations. The commission also has the power to adopt rules and regulations and recommend legislation to the City Council and the mayor. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms