David.Areford - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory David.Areford David Areford Department: Art Title: Department Chairman Send Email Areas of Expertise Devotional art of the late Middle Ages and Northern Renaissance; early printmaking in Europe; twentieth-century printmaking, especially the prints of Sol LeWitt Degrees PhD, Art History, Northwestern University, 2001 MA, Art History, Florida State University, 1995 BA, English, Longwood College, 1985 Professional Publications & Contributions La nave e lo scheletro: Le stampe di Jacopo Rubieri alla Biblioteca Classense di Ravenna. Bologna: Bononia University Press, 2017. The Art of Empathy: The Mother of Sorrows in Northern Renaissance Art and Devotion. Jacksonville, FL: Cummer Museum of Art; and London: Giles, Ltd., 2013. The Viewer and the Printed Image in Late Medieval Europe. Burlington, VT: Ashgate, 2010. Origins of European Printmaking: Fifteenth-Century Woodcuts and Their Public. Coauthored with Peter Parshall, Rainer Schoch, Peter Schmidt, and Richard Field. Washington: National Gallery of Art; and New Haven: Yale University Press, 2005. Excavating the Medieval Image: Manuscripts, Artists, Audiences. Co-edited with Nina A. Rowe. Burlington, VT: Ashgate, 2004. Additional Information David S. Areford is a specialist in late-medieval European devotional art, especially early printmaking. More recently, he has extended his interest in the history of printmaking to include twentieth-century America, specifically the prints of Sol LeWitt. He has published books, book chapters, and journal articles on fifteenth-century woodcuts and metalcuts, as well as manuscript illumination and panel painting. His book The Viewer and the Printed Image in Late Medieval Europe  received honorable mention from the International Fine Print Dealers Association Book Awards in 2011; and his co-authored exhibition catalog Origins of European Printmaking: Fifteenth-Century Woodcuts and Their Public was a finalist for the Alfred H. Barr, Jr. Award for Museum Scholarship in 2007. His exhibition catalog The Art of Empathy: The Mother of Sorrows in Northern Renaissance Art and Devotion was partly funded through a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts ("Art Works" program) in 2013. Professor Areford's current research and curatorial projects include "Strict Beauty: Sol LeWitt Prints," an exhibition and catalog; "Locating LeWitt: Between the Mind and the Body," an edited collection of essays by various LeWitt scholars; and several articles exploring varied topics -- Sol LeWitt's printmaking, fifteenth-century woodcuts of the Christ Child, and the Maulbronn Altarpiece of 1432. Professor Areford's fellowships and awards include a Fulbright Fellowship for research in Germany (1998-1999), a Post-Doctoral Curatorial Fellowship at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC (2001-2002), and the Newberry Library's Weiss/Brown Publication Subvention Award (2001). In 2009, he was elected to the Board of Directors (3-year term) of the International Center of Medieval Art. Courses Taught Art 101: Ancient and Medieval Art Art 207L: Queer Visual Culture Art 305: Early Medieval Art Art 306: Romanesque and Gothic Art Art 309: Northern Renaissance Art UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms