Do You Need IRB Review - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Do You Need IRB Review Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Applying to the IRB Managing an IRB Protocol Required Training Deadlines And Meetings Do You Need IRB Review Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Do You Need IRB Review? Activities must meet the institutional definition of Human Research to fall under IRB oversight. Use the following two steps to determine whether your project qualifies as human research. Always begin with Step 1. Additional guidance: Human Research Determination Worksheet (HRP-310) Engagement Determination Worksheet (HRP-311) Definitions SOP (HRP-001) Step 1: Is your project considered research? Research is defined as a systematic investigation, including research development, testing and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge. If you answer YES to all of the following questions, your project is considered research. Go to Step 2 below. If you answer NO to any of the following questions, then skip to RESULTS below. Is the activity an investigation ? (Investigation: A searching inquiry for facts; detailed or careful examination.) Is the investigation systematic ? (Systematic: Having or involving a system, method, or plan.) Is the systematic investigation designed to develop or contribute to knowledge ? (Designed: observable behaviors used to develop or contribute to knowledge. Develop: to form the basis for a future contribution. Contribute: to result in. Knowledge: truths, facts, information.) Is the knowledge the systematic investigation is designed to develop or contribute generalizable ? ( Generalizable : Universally or widely applicable.) Note: Generally, classroom research projects which are intended solely for educational purposes (such as for learning research methods) do not meet this definition of research. In addition, the federal regulations do not consider certain activities to be "Research as Defined by DHHS" (see Definitions SOP HRP-001 or HRPP Plan HRP-101 ). Step 2: Does the research involve human subjects? Human subject is defined as a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research (1) obtains information or biospecimens through Intervention or Interaction with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the information or biospecimens; or (2) obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. If you answer YES to all of the following questions, the research involves human subjects. Is the investigator gathering information or biospecimens for the research about living individuals ? Will the investigator use, study, or analyze information or biospecimens (regardless of identifiers) obtained through either interventions (for example, venipuncture) or interactions (for example, survey) with the individual? OR, Will the investigator obtain, use, study, analyze, or generate identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens (for example, secondary research use)? Results: If you answer YES to BOTH steps 1 and 2 above, then you are conducting research with human subjects. IRB review is required. If you answer YES to step 1, but NO to step 2, then you are conducting research but not with human subjects. IRB review is not required. If you answer NO to step 1, then you are not conducting research per the IRB definition. Step 2 does not apply. IRB review is not required. Please note that activities which are "not human research" do not fall under the IRB's oversight and do not need IRB review. This is not to be confused with "exempt" human research which is considered human research and requires UMass Boston IRB review (see Applying to the IRB ). Related Links NIH Definition of Human Subjects Research NIH Decision Tool: Am I Doing Human Subjects Research? NIH FAQs Human Subjects OHRP Quality Improvement FAQs UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms