Resources for Students - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Latin American & Iberian Studies Resources for Students Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Research & Impact Faculty & Staff Resources for Students Language Programs & Courses Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Resources for Students The field of Latin American and Iberian studies explores the languages, literatures, and histories of Spain, Portugal, Latin America and the Caribbean. Insight into these cultures trains students to think critically from different perspectives—an important skill in a world where communication and understanding across boundaries is essential. Latin American and Iberian studies graduates are prepared for careers in international affairs, government, education and many other fields. Our language programs offer multidisciplinary courses in Spanish and Portuguese. Our major in Latin American and Iberian Studies offers three options: The track in Language, Culture, and Society opens diverse perspectives on the languages, literatures, cultures and societies of Spain, Portugal, Latin America, and the Caribbean. The track in Translation Studies offers a unique undergraduate curriculum examining the history, theory, and practice of Spanish/English translation in cultural context. The track in Latin American Studies provides students with the opportunity to explore the histories, societies and cultures of Latin America and the Caribbean from a variety of disciplinary perspectives. Additionally, we offer three minors. The minor in Spanish Language is ideal for students who wish to obtain advanced language proficiency for use in a wide variety of professions while the minor in Latin American Studies is designed for students who wish to explore the societies and cultures of Latin America and the Caribbean while pursuing another major.   The minor in Portuguese Studies enables students to study the language, cultures, politics and societies of the Lusophone World. What Can I Do with My Major? Curiculum As a student in the Latin American and Iberian Studies program: You’ll acquire an interdisciplinary background in cultures, histories, and languages of the Portuguese- and Spanish-speaking worlds. You will be responsive, engaged, and successful in today’s transnational world. You will be able to question and examine the representation of events, maintain multiple perspectives, exercise critical thinking, and practice cross-cultural awareness. Careers Among the career possibilities available to you as a graduate of Latin American and Iberian studies are: Education Translation Healthcare Commerce Tech industry Social work Many organizations value a deeper understanding of different cultures and the ability to communicate and work effectively in several languages. Pairing a Major in Latin American and Iberian Studies with other fields will enhance your contribution to our communities as a successful graduate and professional. You will also have the right tools and training to pursue advanced studies in fields such as Law, Public Policy, International Relations, Public Health, Organizational Leadership, and Museum Studies. Potential Employers Hospitals and medical centers and clinics Community action agencies Federal government agencies State and local government agencies Cultural heritage organizations K-12 schools Nonprofit organizations International aid and relief organizations Private foundations Healthcare access and advocacy Campus cultural centers Mental health institutions Organizations and centers dedicated to promoting Hispanic visual and performing arts (e.g., Latino Arts Inc., National Assn of Latino Arts & Culture) Smithsonian Latino Center Foreign news agencies Advertising agencies Publishing houses Tech Companies Organizations for immigrants, migrant workers, and refugees U.S. firms with operations in Latin America Law firms, and Public defenders offices Civil rights organizations Alumni experiences Many of our students apply their skills professionally immediately after graduation. They work as medical and court interpreters at the Cambridge Health Alliance and in the Boston Immigration Court system. They pursue masters degrees in Education, Applied Linguistics, Public Health, and Social Work. They work for the Office of Communications of the Mayor of the City of Boston, the Boston Public School system, local Nonprofit Organizations, and local companies. They also are freelance professionals and national translation award candidates. The Department of Latin American and Iberian Studies offers is vibrant academic and cultural community.  Please take a look at our department newsletter to find out about events and opportunities. Please keep in touch! We will be happy to share news and photographs of your recent activities and accomplishments with UMass Boston community through our newsletter. We look forward to hearing from you! Academic Events and Latin American and Iberian Studies News Coming soon in Fall 2024! Webinar for Latinx Students at UMass Boston Latinx students were especially affected during the COVID-19 pandemic. UMass faculty and staff quickly realized that, for this population, obstacles to e-learning were aggravated by the loss of income, lack of technology, and metal health issues. In response to these challenges, Prof. Coll-Tellechea, in collaboration with Albis Mejía (advisor), Ana Frega (Director of CLA Advising), and students volunteers, shared useful ideas and strategies to cope with these issues during this difficult time and beyond. Three modules, in Spanish with English translation, present the academic, financial, and emotional concerns and experiences of students, offering invaluable advice to navigate the crisis. We include it here as relevant support for UMass Boston Latinx community. Three-part Webinar for Latinx students at UMass Boston / Seminario Virtual en Tres  Modulos Para Estudiantes Latinex de UMass Boston Centers The Spanish Resource Center Founded in 2003 and located in the Healey Library, the Spanish Resource Center - Boston is a meeting place for teachers and professors of Spanish, dual language immersion program teachers, students, and open to anyone and everyone interested in the study of the Spanish language and culture. It hosts a wide range of activities in collaboration with the Department of Latin American and Iberian Studies. The Spanish Resource Center - Boston belongs to a network of resource centers located in different universities across the United States and Canada that are sponsored by the Ministry of Education through the Education Office of the Embassy of Spain. It offers the community a specialized library and loan service, as well as being a hands on cultural focal point where workshops, seminars, conversation groups, Spanish film festivals and other educational and cultural events are offered. Visit the website here . You can also visit our Facebook page or our Twitter page . Director:  Antonio Caballero Javierre Location:  Healey Library 6th Floor, Room 003 Email: cer_boston@educacion.gob.es SCHEDULE  Spring 2022 Monday through Friday  3:00pm-5:00pm; Wednesday 9:00-12:00pm Conversation hours: ( In-person) Tuesday 3:00-4:00 pm ( Zoom) Thursday 3:00-4:00 pm The Center for Portuguese Language–Instituto Camões The Center for Portuguese Language-Instituto Camões at UMass Boston was established in 2009 as a joint venture between the university and the Instituto Camões, Portugal’s preeminent cultural institution. The Center for Portuguese Language-Instituto Camões, located in Healey Library (6th floor), receives and houses cultural and pedagogical materials and sponsors events and exhibitions that represent the richness and diversity of the cultures of the Portuguese-speaking world. The center works in partnership with the Latin American and Iberian Studies Department, the home of UMass Boston’s Portuguese Language Program and of curriculum devoted to exploring the histories and cultures of Portugal and Brazil. The center for Portuguese Language-Instituto Camões represents UMass Boston’s commitment to the diversity of its student body and curriculum and to community outreach. The university’s collaboration with the center provides an ideal opportunity to further shared goals supporting diversity, enriching the intellectual environment on campus and state-wide, enhancing the appreciation of cultural heritage, and strengthening engagement with multi-bordered local and global communities. Visit the website here . You can also visit our Facebook page . Director:  Jose Da Cunha Rodrigues Location: Healey Library 6th Floor Telephone: 617-287-3815 SCHEDULE Monday—Friday 9:00-5:00 For more information contact: Jose.Rodrigues@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms