- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 UMass Boston Third Most Diverse College in U.S., R Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Third Most Diverse College in U.S., Report Finds 02/14/2020 |
    Office of Communications 24/7 Wall St. reviewed U.S. Department of Education data and determined that UMass Boston is the third most diverse four-year college in the United States. The authors of the report, published in USA Today, note that UMass Boston also costs far less than most other schools on the list. Image By: Ed Collier The University Is Greater Value Than Other Schools on List, Authors Say “In a world where diversity matters —in education, to the business community, and to the nation itself—UMass Boston is the place to find it,” Interim Chancellor Katherine Newman said. “24/7 Wall Street has recognized UMass Boston as the most affordable campus in the country on its list of the top diverse universities. Bravo to UMass Boston!” To make this list, 24/7 Wall St. reviewed data from the U.S. Department of Education’s Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System for the fall 2018 school semester. The rankings are based on the chance that two randomly selected students would have a different racial or ethnic background, or different U.S. citizenship status. Across all undergraduates nationwide, such a likelihood is about 69.6 percent. Among the schools on the list, the likelihood ranges 77.9 percent to 83.2 percent. The report authors note that UMass Boston is the only large four-year public school in America in which there is a greater than 80 percent chance that two randomly selected students would have a different race, ethnicity, or U.S. citizenship status. They also note that at an average cost of $21,777, UMass Boston costs far less than most other schools on this list to attend. Three other New England schools made the list of 25 diverse schools: Boston University (No. 24), Wellesley College (No. 17), and MCPHS University (No. 16). About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms