Classical Languages BA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Classical Languages BA Home Academics Majors & Programs Classical Languages BA Request Info Loading... Develop advanced language skills and emerge career-ready As a student in the Classical Languages BA program at UMass Boston you’ll have the opportunity to explore the rich history and culture of ancient Greece and Rome through the study of Latin and Greek. Gain a deep understanding of the languages, literature, philosophy, and history of the classical world, and develop advanced language skills that can be applied to a wide range of academic and professional pursuits. In this program, you will: Hone your Latin and Greek language skills, and be able to read and interpret a wide range of ancient texts, including epic poetry, drama, philosophy, and historical accounts Explore the historical and cultural context of the classical world, developing an understanding of the lasting impact of ancient cultures on the modern world. Engage with complex ideas and texts, and to develop your own ideas and perspectives on the classical world and its relevance to contemporary issues Career Possibilities Pursue a career in education, teaching Latin and/or Greek at the secondary or college level. Become a lawyer, using your advanced language skills and critical thinking abilities to excel in legal research and analysis. Or, work in a humanities field such as archaeology, museum curation, or cultural heritage preservation. Whatever your goals, UMass Boston is here to support you. Become a(n): Professor Lawyer Archaeologist/ Curator Business Person/ Financial Advisor Journalist Publisher Plan Your Education How to Apply Apply for Admission Please review the first-year and transfer apply pages for important information about application requirements, deadlines, and application status check. Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Required Courses Greek and Latin Courses (30 Credits): Take ten courses in Greek and/or Latin Additional Course (3 Credits): Take one classical studies course or an additional classical languages course. Capstone (3 Credits): Take one of the following. The research paper from either of these two courses may serve as the capstone paper. CLSICS 387 - The Golden Age of Athens 3 Credit(s) or CLSICS 388 - The Golden Age of Rome 3 Credit(s) Deadlines & Cost Early action deadline: November 1; Regular Decision Deadline: June 15 Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Related Minors Classical Languages Minor Students majoring in another discipline may wish to deepen and enrich their understanding by minoring in a classical language (Latin or Greek). These students must take a total of six courses to complete the minor program of study. Classics and Religious Studies Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Classics and Religious Studies department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Classics and Religious Studies College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore the College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms