Dean's Office - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Dean's Office Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Research Student Success Center Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Welcome Staff Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy About the Dean Professor Ricardo Castaño-Bernard has been appointed Interim Dean for the College of Science and Mathematics at UMASS Boston. Castaño-Bernard's expertise and vision will play a crucial role in shaping the future of the college during his interim tenure. Before this appointment, he served as the Associate Dean of CSM for the past five years. Ricardo Castaño-Bernard earned his PhD and MSc in mathematics from the University of Warwick, United Kingdom, and a BSc in mathematics from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM). He joined UMass Boston in 2015 and served as a Graduate Program Director from 2016 to 2021. He was appointed Associate Dean for the Faculty Personnel, Research, and Graduate Studies of the College of Science and Mathematics in 2021. Prior to joining UMass Boston, he was a Program Director in the Division of Mathematical Sciences at the National Science Foundation. Contact Us College of Science and Mathematics McCormack, 3rd floor, Suite 625. 100 Morrisey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125-3393 P: 617.287.5777 F: 617.287. 6511 csm@umb.edu Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms