Education - Elementary MEd - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Education - Elementary MEd Home Academics Majors & Programs Education - Elementary MEd Request Info Loading... Preparing educators to teach students in grades 1-6 and support them to be successful in school. UMass Boston's Elementary Education MEd is designed for educators seeking elementary initial licensure (grades 1-6). All students take the 36-credit sequence of courses, which support in their graduate-level learning process. Courses include an introduction to a developmental perspective on education, research and current understandings about the methods of teaching specific fields of knowledge, classroom management, inclusive practices for meeting the needs of students with disabilities, and instruction of content for English Language Learners. The capstone of the program for the Initial Licensure is the supervised practicum and accompanying portfolio. Candidates demonstrate readiness for the initial elementary licensure by a passing score on the MA CAP (Candidate Assessment of Performance). Choose Your Track Students can choose to complete our campus program where students take 2-3 courses a semester and complete their pre-practicum in their penultimate semester and their practicum in their final semester. This program takes 2-3 years to complete depending on how many course students complete each semester. Students can also choose to participate in the Teach Next Year (TNY) pathway. The TNY pathway seeks individuals committed to making a positive impact on students’ success in urban and high need schools. TNY is an intensive site-based program that takes approximately 12 months. As it is a cohort model, TNY only accepts applications for summer. Why Apply to UMass Boston's Elementary Education MEd Program? This program offers opportunities for students to learn about elementary pedagogy and content across the curriculum areas. Through working with dedicated faculty to develop teaching skills, action research skills, and knowledge of child development, our graduates are prepared to work in urban, diverse, and inclusive settings and serve children and their families as soon as they graduate. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Test Scores: MTEL or GRE Letters of Recommendation: 2 Writing Sample: Optional Other: Statement of purpose, transcripts, résumé Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: Initial Licensure: February 1 (priority deadline) and April 1 for fall Teach Next Year track: March 15 (priority deadline) and April 15 (final deadline) for summer Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum - Initial Licensure Track Foundation Courses (12 Credits) EDC G 606 - Sociocultural Foundations of Education 3 Credit(s) ECHD 611 - Development and Characteristics of All Young Learners Including Those with Special Needs 3 Credit(s) EDC G 630 - Inclusion PreK-12:Diversity and Equity in Inclusive Settings 3 Credit(s) EDC G 643 - Fostering Equitable and Affirming Classroom Environments 3 Credit(s) Content Methods Courses (15 Credits) EDC G 619 - Designing Instruction: Science 3 Credit(s) EDC G 626 - Integrating Social Studies and the Arts 3 Credit(s) EDC G 646 - Understanding Reading: Principles and Practices 3 Credit(s) EDC G 656 - Teaching the English Language Arts at the Elementary Level 3 Credit(s) EDC G 668 - Content & Methods for Teaching Elementary School Mathematics 3 Credit(s) Practicum Core (10 Credits) EDC G 650 - Rethinking Equity and Teaching for English Language Learners 3 Credit(s) EDC G 658 - Pre-practicum seminar 1 Credit(s) EDC G 686 - Graduate Practicum: Student Teaching Elementary Education 6 Credit(s) Licensure Licensure will be approved when all courses are passed with a GPA of greater than 3.0 and the Practicum has been completed. Curriculum - Teach Next Year Track Curriculum Core (12 Credits) ECHD 611 - Development and Characteristics of All Young Learners Including Those with Special Needs. 3 Credit(s) EDC G 630 - Inclusion PreK-12:Diversity and Equity in Inclusive Settings 3 Credit(s) EDC G 646 - Understanding Reading: Principles and Practices 3 Credit(s) EDC G 668 - Content & Methods for Teaching Elementary School Mathematics 3 Credit(s) Pedagogy Core (12 Credits) EDC G 619 - Designing Instruction: Science 3< Credit(s) EDC G 656 - Teaching the English Language Arts at the Elementary Level 3 Credit(s) EDC G 670 - Mathematics for Elementary Teachers 2 3 Credit(s) EDC G 696 - Independent Study 1-6 Credit(s) Practicum Core (12 Credits) EDC G 643 - Fostering Equitable and Affirming Classroom Environments 3 Credit(s) EDC G 650 - Rethinking Equity and Teaching for English Language Learners 3 Credit(s) EDC G 686 - Graduate Practicum: Student Teaching Elementary Education 6 Credit(s) Licensure Licensure will be approved when all courses are passed with a GPA of 3.0 or higher and initial level on PST portfolio. Graduation Criteria Initial Licensure Track Complete 37 credits from twelve courses including four foundations courses, five content methods courses, and three practicum core courses. Capstone: Completion of EDC G 643, 650, and 686. Practicum: All candidates for Initial Licensure are required to take the full 6-credit practicum. Candidates are placed in a partner school one day a week during Semester 3 which that satisfies the MA DESE 75 hour pre-practicum requirement and then in a partner school for 14 weeks (5 days a week) during Semester 4 which satisfied the MA DESE 300 hour practicum requirement. Arrangements for pre-practicum and practicum are made through application to the CEHD Placement Director. Pre-practicum hours must be completed before starting the practicum core courses. Exams: All licensure candidates must achieve passing scores on the Massachusetts Test for Educator Licensure (MTEL) Communication & Literacy, General Curriculum, General Curriculum Mathematics Subtest and Foundations of Reading tests (must be passed before starting the practicum core courses). Minimum grade: No courses with a grade below B may be applied toward the program. GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 is required from all program courses. Residency: No more than two courses from other institutions may be applied toward the program with approval of the graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Five years. Teach Next Year Track Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including four curriculum core courses, four pedagogy core courses, and three practicum core courses. Capstone: Completion of EDC G 643, 650, and 686. Practicum: All candidates for Initial Licensure are required to take the full 6-credit practicum. Candidates are placed in a full year internship that satisfies both the MA DESE 75 hour pre-practicum and 300 hour practicum requirements. Candidates are placed in a partner school through an application to the Teach Next Year program director. Candidates who intend to complete the 75 hour, one day a week pre-practicum and the 300 hour full semester practicum will make this arrangement at the time of matriculation. Pre-practicum hours must be completed before starting the practicum core courses. Exams: All licensure candidates must achieve passing scores on the Massachusetts Test for Educator Licensure (MTEL) Communication & Literacy, General Curriculum, General Curriculum Mathematics Subtest and Foundations of Reading tests (must be passed before starting the practicum core courses). GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 must be maintained throughout the program. Statute of limitations: Five years. Learning Outcomes & Careers Outcomes Graduates of the Elementary Education MEd Program are prepared to teach students in grades 1-6 through a strong knowledge of curriculum including math, science, social studies, and English/Language arts. Students will learn the current developmentally appropriate and evidence-based teaching practices that support students and prepare our graduates to support their students to be successful in school. Careers The Elementary Education MEd Program, housed within a public urban university, is dedicated to the training of educators who are prepared to teach individuals from various diverse backgrounds in elementary school settings. Contact Graduate Program Director Patricia Paugh (Initial Licensure Track) patricia.paugh [at] umb.edu (617) 287-7586 Graduate Program Director Christopher Martell (Teach Next Year Track) christopher.martell [at] umb.edu Curriculum & Instruction Learn more about UMass Boston's Curriculum & Instruction department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Curriculum & Instruction College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms