Media - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Media Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities Government Student Leadership & Community Engagement Media Student Arts & Events Council Student Activities Welcome Week The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Media The Mass Media Over 17,000 students attend the University of Massachusetts Boston, and every day during the semester, there are multiple events that draw students out of their classrooms and into public discourse at our university. Our job as the student newspaper is to shape, critique, and encourage this discourse. We interview the scientists, authors, and artists that come on campus regularly. We search for interesting discussions, studies, and people on campus, and highlight them for our community. At our best, we are the first place that students, staff, and faculty turn to when they want to find out what's going on at UMass Boston, what to do between classes, how to connect with clubs and centers, and what local businesses are worth checking out over the weekends. The Mass Media publishes a weekly print edition and posts stories online on a rolling basis. The Watermark The Watermark is an arts journal made by and for the many talented students of UMass Boston. Since 1979 we have celebrated the work of students, staff, and alumni by sharing pieces with the campus and with the world. The Watermark welcomes students from all disciplines to volunteer their time and effort in the running of the journal, but our primary focus is nurturing emerging writers and artists, as well as aspiring publishers, as they make their way through this weird and scary thing called life. Our doors are open to all members of the university's community with something they'd like to share. Submissions of poems, prose, opinions, essays, critiques, acts of plays, photographs, paintings, sketches, doodles, and screenshots. Writ Large Writ Large is a non-fiction magazine that publishes academically researched op-eds at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. This means that we want your opinion, but we want it to be backed up with facts. Every article is accompanied by artwork that matches what the article is talking about. Each edition has its own theme. Office of Student Activities and Leadership Campus Center, 3 rd Floor 3400 617-287-7950 (telephone) 617-287-7978 (fax) student.activities@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms