Future Beacon Option - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions First-Year Students Pathways Into UMass Boston Future Beacon Option Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Apply as a First-Year Student Pathways Into UMass Boston Directions for Student Potential Future Beacon Option Pathway Program Chat With Your Counselor Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented Future Beacon Option If you already applied to UMass Boston but were not admissible, the Future Beacon Option lays out a plan for you to transfer to UMass Boston at a later date. While your academic credentials do not quality for admission to UMass Boston at this time, follow these steps to become a UMass Boston student in a future semester: Choose a regionally accredited institution , such as a local community college. Complete 12 credits of college level course work at a 2.5 GPA or higher. We recommend courses in the Arts and Humanities, Social and Behavioral Sciences, Natural Sciences, and English Composition (above the 100 level). If you return to an institution you previously attended, your cumulative GPA must also be at least a 2.5 to be admissible. Additionally, if you have previously taken courses at UMass Boston, you must be in good academic standing. Remedial/college preparatory courses are not considered college level, and therefore will not fulfill the requirements. Pass/fail courses will also not meet the requirements Reapply for a new term . The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will maintain your records from your previous application for one year. Visit this page for instructions on how to reapply. Submit your updated official transcripts from the new institution you attended. Be sure to send these transcripts and your Reactivation Form prior to any posted deadlines for the new semester you would like to apply for. Bunker Hill Community College Sign Up! If you've applied to UMass Boston but were not admissible, the Future Beacon Option at Bunker Hill Community College makes it easy to enroll at Bunker Hill Community College and then transfer to UMass Boston in a future semester. UMass Boston and Bunker Hill Community College have established a partnership that will make this transition very easy. By choosing to participate in this program, you can take advantage of the following benefits: No need to fill out an additional application. UMass Boston will share your information with Bunker Hill. In addition to the advising resources and support offered at Bunker Hill, you will have additional support about all transfer planning from UMass Boston's Transfer Enrollment Counselor. When you are ready to transfer, your reactivation will be made easy and the fee will be waived. Transfer when you are ready, after earning an Associate's degree, or after earning just 12 credits of college level course work (with a 2.5 GPA or higher). To participate you must complete the program participation form . Note: Successful completion of the Future Beacon Option does not guarantee admission to the Nursing, Engineering, or Management (Business) programs at UMass Boston. Other majors or programs may also be excluded based on limited availability or special requirements. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions . Roxbury Community College Sign Up! If you've applied to UMass Boston but were not admissible, the Future Beacon Option at Roxbury Community College makes it easy to enroll at Roxbury Community College and then transfer to UMass Boston in a future semester.  UMass Boston and Roxbury Community College have established a partnership that will make this transition very easy. By choosing to participate in this program, you can take advantage of the following benefits: No need to fill out an additional application. UMass Boston will share your information with Roxbury Community College. In addition to the advising resources and support offered at Roxbury Community College, you will have additional support about all transfer planning from a dedicated transfer counselor. When you are ready to transfer, complete the Joint Admissions Confirmation Form and we will waive the application fee. Transfer when you are ready, after earning an Associate's degree, or after earning just 12 credits of college level coursework (with a 2.5 GPA or higher). To participate you must complete the program participation form . Note: Successful completion of the Future Beacon Option does not guarantee admission to the Nursing, Engineering, or Management (Business) programs at UMass Boston. Other majors or programs may also be excluded based on limited availability or special requirements. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions . Note: Successful completion of the Future Beacon Option does not guarantee admission to the Nursing, Engineering, or Management (Business) programs at UMass Boston. Other majors or programs may also be excluded based on limited availability or special requirements. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions at 617.287.6100. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms