Inclusive Excellence & Belonging - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Home Campus Life Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Campus Ministry Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Diversity Resources Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Welcome to the Office of Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Our True Beacon: Purposeful Learning with Diverse Minds and Hearts UMass Boston is committed to the principles of inclusion in all our endeavors—scholarly, pedagogic, and translational. We foster an inclusive campus community and celebrate our diverse identities: cultural, socio-economic, linguistic, racial, ethnic, religious, political, sexual and gender identity and orientation. Identities—in their extraordinary intersectional vibrancies—that are assets to our collective pursuits to nurture discovery of logic (truth/science), ethics (justice/goodness), and aesthetics (beauty). Purposeful learning with diverse minds and hearts strengthens us all. It is our true Beacon. – Marcelo Suárez-Orozco, Chancellor Mission Our office actively supports and advances the university’s values of diversity and inclusion, engagement, transformation and cultural development. Inclusive Excellence & Belonging acts as an advocate, resource broker, educator and dialogue facilitator to ensure that all members of the campus community are included, respected and valued in all spaces. Vision Our office aspires to create a campus climate that affirms diverse identities and experiences, fosters value and respect of all community members, and celebrates differences. All of Us: Identity Support Pages All of Us is UMass Boston's directory of identity-related support and social opportunities for students. We encourage you to bring your whole identity to campus — your diversity, ethnicity, gender identity, Pride, and beyond. Your individuality, life experience, and uniqueness are part of what makes our community special.
Explore the inclusive resources provided by various departments and student organizations that might help you express your individual awesomeness. Explore All of Us Forms & Policies UMass Boston is part of the University of Massachusetts system. As such, the campus is generally governed by a set of policies and standards that are adopted by the University Board of Trustees. University of Massachusetts System Policies, Standards, and Procedures Civil Rights and Title IX Complaint Form Diversity Resources & Reports Change your chosen name in WISER Contact Us Calvin R. Hill, PhD Vice Chancellor for Inclusive Excellence & Belonging chill@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms