Electronic Billing - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Bursar Payment Information Electronic Billing Menu menu Menu Plan to Pay Financial Responsibility Agreement Tuition & Fees Payment Information Electronic Billing Online Payments Student Refunds Health Insurance Bookstore Advance Student Tax Information Forms Assistance Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Electronic Billing Active students will no longer receive paper invoices in the mail.  Students will receive an email notification to their UMass Boston email account when their bills have been generated in WISER. The notification will provide the invoice ID as well as the due date. In order to view the bills, students must log into their WISER account. The invoices are located on the Finance Center page. Invoices are a snapshot in time and do not update until next billing cycle. All real time activity is located on your "Account Summary". Students can print or email their student bills directly to parents, 3 rd party payor in the past, you may not need to provide documentation. Check with the One-Stop to be sure. Fall 2024 Registration, Aid and Billing FAQ's NOTE: DO NOT use the plan to pay process as a way to drop courses.  Students MUST drop courses that they don’t plan to attend THEMSELVES or they may be responsible for the cost. UMB Staff cannot drop courses for students. What are the changes for Fall 2024 registration and billing? New Changes for Fall 2024. Pay your bill in full by the due date on your original bill . Any balance must be paid in full before the due date, or your class schedule could be dropped. To be Plan to Pay compliant health insurance must be waived by the due date or payment will need to be made for the health insurance policy by the due date. Why are these changes being made? These changes are designed to provide clear deadlines and to support students in finalizing their plans for fall courses earlier in the cycle. Student success is UMass Boston’s #1 priority. The policy aims to ensure that enrolled students are informed about their financial obligation and remain on the road to completion of their degree without incurring unnecessary debt. These changes build on UMass Boston’s existing foundation from last year: Over 80% of students had already signed up for classes by July 1 st . Students with plans to pay had better success rates than those who did not. Having clear deadlines helps students get their plans to pay in place and more readily allows staff to assist them in this process . What changes have been made to the payment plan this fall? The due date for all monthly payment plan payments will be the 1st of the month. I am concerned that my classes could be dropped, how can I avoid it? The drop can be avoided by: Paying your bill in full by the payment due or Setting up a payment plan by the payment due date. Paying attention to notices from the Bursar’s Office if you owe a balance and following the steps in the notices to ensure your account will remain in good standing. What if I have a third-party waiver or outside scholarship paying for part of all of the classes for which I am registered? Please reach out to the Bursar's Office by emailing to UMBTuitionWaiver@umb.edu with appropriate documents for settling your student account. What if I failed a course in the spring but didn't learn that I failed it until after the registration deadline? There will be information provided to those students who fail a course in Spring 2024 who need to or would like to retake the course in summer about how to register for such a course(s) later this spring. What if I am waiting for an outside scholarship, funds from a 529 plan, or another source? You may be asked to provide some documentation to avoid the hold being added You can submit information supporting your plan to pay for review by UMB staff through contact with the One-Stop or Bursar’s Office . What if I am a residential student planning to live in the Motley residence halls this fall? You will be billed separately for your housing costs by COCM. Your residential meal plan will be automatically added to your bill once your contract to live in student housing is complete. What kind of documentation do I have to provide for 3rd party payments of my bill? First, if you are a continuing student and have had a 3 rd party payor in the past, you may not need to provide documentation. Check with the One-Stop to be sure. Ex. 3 rd party Contracts, Award Letters, National Guard Certificates, Financial Guarantee Letters, or Purchase Order should be submitted to the Bursar's Office ASAP. I have an assistantship, does this change anything? Yes.  Provide proof of that to the One-Stop or Bursar as part of your plan to pay. I am a Shorelight Student, does this change anything? Yes.  Shorelight students are exempt once payment has been received by Shorelight.  Any Shorelight scholarship will also be added to your account through communication with Shorelight. Students Can Manage Access to View WISER Billing Students have the option to grant or remove access to individuals in order to view student bills within their Student Center in WISER. Get Information on Granting Additional Access to WISER Account Need more Job Aid Help? How to Access e-bill in WISER "How to View Account Activity" Connect Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday: 10:00 am to 4:00 pm Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing. Teller Hours (Student Payments & Departmental Deposits) Monday – Friday: 8:30 am – 4:00 pm Internal Business for Departments Phone: Contact the Bursar Office staff directly or email BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday 8:30 am to 4:00 pm See Also WISER WISER Help for Students Your On-Track Guide to Affordable Textbooks Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms