Mobile - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Software & Systems Telecom Mobile Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems WISER Email Password CloudPC Docusign Electronic Signature Software for Faculty & Staff Student IT Discounts Wifi Aira Accessibility Technology Telecom Mobile Mobile Request Telephone Voicemail Mathematica Admin Systems Services for Alumni Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Mobile Devices Carrier Information Personal Mobile Device Discounts Ordering Info Traveling Abroad Policies & Procedures Mobile Device Carrier Information iPhones and other smartphones are advanced handheld communications devices. iPhones and other smartphones provide access to your UMass Boston email, calendar, contacts, and more. If you need an iPhone for a short period of time, telecommunications can loan out one to your department. If you device breaks, get stolen, or lost we can also loan out one until you are eligible for an upgrade if available. Your department will be responsible for any charges that are accrued while using the device. All existing phone numbers are transferable no matter the carrier. If the department is paying for the unit and the user would like to keep their number, user needs to contact the carrier to release number. Once the number is released, Telecommunications will contact the carrier with information provided to accept responsibility of the number. For details please call 7-5252 In order to get support on your mobile device call the IT Service Desk at 7-5220 or email at itservicedesk@umb.edu, a ticket will be created and assigned to the proper group. Personal Mobile Device Discounts Users using ATT and work for the University you can now receive state discounts by visiting https://www.att.com/shop/wireless/iru-check-for-discount.html Users using T-Mobile you can now receive discounts by visiting https://now.t-mobile.com/government-employee-discounts.html Users using Verizon you can now receive discounts by visiting https://www.verizon.com/discounts/ Mobile Device - Ordering Information Steps for getting an iPhone or other smartphone device For device information and models please select your carrier of choice: AT&T T-Mobile Verizon ​Someone with a budget signing authority submits Mobile Device Request Form to order the device and accessories by clicking here https://www.umb.edu/it/telecom/mobile_request .Telecom will place order once the order form is received via email, devices usually arrive between 3 to 5 business days. Note, If the user currently has a cellular device and would like to have their number ported over to UMass Boston, Telecommunications will place the order once the number has been released by the user. The user is then contacted by the Office of Telecommunications to inform them the device is ready to be delivered/picked up and activated. When ready to transfer your data to a new iPhone, use this link on how to transfer all your data to a new iPhone. Apple Restore Data Mobile devices while traveling abroad When traveling outside the United States is important to inform Telecommunications, which then applies the proper international plans while traveling abroad. The reason we need to be notified is to make sure your device is compatible while traveling outside the US. If Telecommunication is not informed, the user will accrue roaming charges which will not be credited back to their account. Below is a link to what each carrier charges while traveling outside the US. For those using AT&T and Verizon, click International Day Pass below to see how the day pass applies to you. T-Mobile users, this link does not apply to you, but it is still important to verify and make sure you have coverage. AT&T International Verizon International T-Mobile International Mobile Device Policy & Procedures The Telecommunications Department at UMass Boston provides cell phones to faculty and staff as required for work when approved by the department head. The costs associated with these devices will be paid for by encumbrances in the Telecommunications Department; and then the costs—both monthly fixed and usage charges—of each device will be re-charged to the appropriate budget number provided by the department head when the request is made via https://www.umb.edu/it/telecom/mobile_request . All charges related to mobile purchases will reflect on the account that was provided at the time of the order. We use the State Contract when applicable to assist us in choosing our service providers. Download Smart Phones, Cell Phones and Pagers – Policies and Procedures Download Smart Phones, Cell Phones and Pagers – Policies and Procedures Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms