Your Take: Magazine Fall 2023 - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Your Take: Magazine Fall 2023 Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Beacons Magazine Fall 2023 Your Take: Beacons Magazine Fall 2023 12/08/2023 |
    Beacons Magazine For this issue of Beacons, we asked our alumni: Who was your favorite UMass Boston professor and why? Funda Durupinar Babur Assistant Professor, Computer Science “She’s really skilled in delivering her content, and she’s very easy to talk to!” —Prem Desai G’24 Neal Bruss Associate Professor, English “There was something about his teaching technique that just made you want to do well and absorb as much as you could. He also was very focused and organized, which made listening and testing easy.” —Patricia Sullivan ’82, G’92 Josette Betkoune Former Professor, French “After four years of French in high school, I was already in love with the language and soon fell in love with the culture under her tutelage. With her positive attitude, Betkoune encouraged me to apply for the Junior Year Abroad program. While my parents did not approve it for my junior year, they did allow me to go for my senior year. That enriching year in Paris opened my eyes to the world. Betkoune’s kindness and personal interest in me made all the difference and completely changed my life. She will forever be in my heart.” — Fran Berman ’71 Antonio Carrara Retired Professor, Modern Language, Literature, and Cultures Department, College of Liberal Arts “When taking exams, I would often ‘bend’ the questions to suit my answers. He would, after handing back the results, tell me how he saw what I did. He never really castigated me for it.” — Domenico Mastrototaro ’70 Mary Curran Late Professor, English “Loved her stories, her little Skye Terrier she brought to every class, and her deep love of Ireland and its literature. Her enthusiasm made us all love it, too.” —Carol Merrigan ’69 Linda Dumas Retired Professor, Nursing “Linda Dumas worked as a nurse practitioner while she also taught at UMass Boston, educating us students in real time with real-life experiences, including her historical assistance of the elderly in the old Columbia Point Project. She taught us to respect the elderly, to remember that the elderly were once young like we were, and that one day we might find ourselves the elderly. Profound! Thank you, Linda Dumas!” —Jean McGinty ’08 Sari Edelstein Professor, English "She helped me fall back in love with writing.” —Rochelle Rothermel ’18 Paul Faler Late Professor, History “The late Paul Faler encouraged me to do primary source historical research, starting in my junior year, that most people don't get to do before the master's level. My junior and senior projects—done before records were digitized—took me to the U.S. National Archives and archives at Harvard and MIT. In a box of uncategorized 19th century papers at a university archives, I was able to identify by the handwriting who had authored a draft letter about a topic controversial at the time. The librarian confirmed I was correct. Of course, because the topic was still controversial, the pencil draft went right back into the box of uncategorized university presidential papers!” —Carlene Hill Byron ’81 Ellen Frank Lecturer I, Economics “She was an intelligent and passionate teacher. She’s the reason why I minored in economics.” —Grace Fisher ’20 Delores Gallo Late Professor, Critical and Creative Thinking “She taught me to use my insights when teaching inner city children with an open mind.” —David Buckman ’73 “Dr. Gallo made the class time so energetic. It was evening classes. We all came after working a full-time job. I was an educator in the Quincy Public Schools, as well as a single parent of two high-school students who both played sports. My week was never ending! But I loved walking into Delores’s class at 4 p.m. because I knew something exciting was going to happen. And it did—every class! I was then able to apply strategies that she modeled with my students. She always emphasized metacognition: “thinking about your thinking.” My fifth graders loved that word. I can say with certainty that Dr. Gallo made me a better teacher, which indeed benefited my students year after year. Thank you, Delores Gallo.” —Annie Mcdonough ’94 “In 1976, I was fortunate to be in the inaugural class of the Teacher Certification Program at UMass Boston. The Columbia Point campus was new, the program was new, and my favorite professor, Delores Gallo, was at the center of it all. With unmatched acumen and energy, she founded the program and fearlessly led the way. It is over 40 years later, and I am still teaching and still amazed at how often her words and wisdom impact me in the classroom. Rest in peace and thank you, Delores.” — Judy Norton ’77 Lisa Gonsalves G’90 Department Chair, Curriculum and Instruction; Associate Professor “Lisa Gonsalves is a brilliant, humble heart on two legs, sharing a world of wisdom with her students. To this day she is my mentor and friend.” —Cyndy Drew Etler ’02, G’03 Phillip Granberry PhD’07 Former Lecturer, Economics “For believing I could always achieve more.” —Ivan Lozano ’15 Bettina Harrison Late Professor, Biology “She maintained very high standards of performance and would accept nothing less. Her expectations were clearly stated, and you had to meet them. I loved her character and her willingness to push me to achieve high goals. She was also very caring and giving of her time to her students. A great role model for my future career in teaching which she acted as my mentor in the very early days of the university.” —Lornie Bullerwell ’69 Guy Hogan Retired Professor, Math and Computer Science “He explained everything clearly and his encouragement ignited my passion for math. Not only do I remember what a great teacher he was, but how funny he was, with an endless supply of bad puns that made the class groan. After I fell in love with abstract algebra, Professor Hogan told me that I would enjoy number theory even more. There was a course listed, but it hadn’t been offered in years. I asked Professor Hogan to teach it in my last year, and he did. As an academic myself now, I realize that it must have taken considerable preparation on his part to offer the course, but he did it seemingly effortlessly and certainly graciously. It was one of the best courses I ever took in my time at UMass Boston. I may not have said so adequately at the time: ‘Thank you, Professor Hogan!’” — Lisa Gualtieri ’79 Richard Horsley Professor Emeritus, Classics and Religious Studies “He never gave up on me and always challenged me.” —Jack Reynolds ’97 Nathan Huggins Former Associate Professor, History, College of Liberal Arts “ Dr. Huggins gave us an assignment: Each student had to find out what the Boston police strike had to do with Calvin Coolidge’s presidential election. As I recall, Dr. Huggins gave us no clues, no hints, and no pointers as to how we should go about the assignment. The assignment provided me my first opportunity to do some independent research. Dr. Huggins had given me and other students in class our first taste of research. I went on to do independent research for my PhD and to direct [students] in many research projects as a professor at Virginia Tech. Like Dr. Huggins, I always insisted that my graduate students must put ‘their own stamp’ on their research projects.” —William Barbeau ’69 Luis Jiménez Associate Professor, Political Science “He helps students every step of the way and goes above and beyond for them.” —Valerie Avila ’23 Christopher Katz ’99 Lecturer I, Chemistry “With a cheerful approach to one of colleges hardest course, Professor Katz ensured on keeping the laughter going in class. While big bow ties were definitely his thing, pushing atoms and electrons around during lectures weren’t too far either. The bonds formed during this course extended to reality. A reality for many sophomores that connected individuals from different facets of life to better their education and lives. Over 10 years later, his cheerful attitude and commitment to students is still remembered and appreciated.” —Yesenia Diaz ’15 Esther Kingston-Mann Professor Emerita, History & American Studies “She was so vibrant and engaging about Russian history. I also met my future husband in her class.” —Beverly Drinkwater Nelson ’69 Jack F. Looney, Jr. Professor Emeritus, Ocean Science, College of Science and Mathematics “Jack Looney did not have a typical background. He was not the typical academic type of person. His life prior to becoming a professor is mostly classified. He presented his courses well and was respectful of his students and colleagues.” — Michael Williams ’96 Cat Mazza Department Chair, Professor of Art & Art History “I enjoyed learning how to use art as a multidisciplinary method of activism and justice. She’s always brought extensive knowledge and kindness in every class, and it influenced me as an artist and educator.” —Maria Servellón ’12 Duncan Nelson Late Professor, English, College of Liberal Arts “He had a passion for teaching and was forced to overcome a stutter to communicate to his students.” —John Splaine ’75 Sun-Young Park Associate Professor, Communications “She is an amazing educator. I had the pleasure of taking three of her courses, and she made my college years so memorable. She’s extremely knowledgeable, genuinely cares about her students, and super informative. A common theme in all her classes is her ability to keep her students engaged in lectures. She designs her classes for student success! From study guides to clear and concise power points and applicable assignments, she never misses a beat and does it so effortlessly. She deserves recognition for her level of dedication. Professor Park has gone out of her way and kept an open line of communication for alumni support. She’s that amazing! I hope every Beacon gets to experience a class with her. She truly made my experience with UMass Boston everlasting. Thank you.” — Senait Moges ’22 William Percy Professor, History “He told us on the first day of class how high his standards were, but I wasn’t afraid. (Yes, I was.) He lectured every day without ever referring to a note and never missed a beat. His knowledge was encyclopedic and his brilliance was inspiring. When he called me a ‘fine Latin scholar’ after I was able to translate something he said in class, it was a proud day for me. He wrote me a wonderful recommendation to graduate school, and I’ve never forgotten him, even after all these years.” —Karen A. Romanko ’78 Dimity Peter : Associate Professor, Rehabilitation Counseling James L. Soldner : Associate Professor and Graduate Program Director, Rehabilitation Counseling “They inspired me and always believed in me. They helped form my career and led me to the successful point I'm at today. I am a qualified rehabilitation counselor for the state of Rhode Island. The impact I have now goes way beyond what I envisioned for myself before starting at UMass Boston. I also would like to thank [Lecturer] David Hershenson for all his resources. I keep his published Accessible Retirement book on my desk and make use of it for my work daily.” — Melanie Hope Dunham G’17 Margaret Rhodes Retired Associate Professor, Human Services “She was fair. She didn’t play ‘favorites.’ She also lived the virtues she taught in every area of her life. She was my mentor and someone I still greatly admire.” —Kristen A. Shehade ’07, G’10 Rachel Rubin Professor, American Studies “Rachel Rubin is a pinnacle of respect, curiosity, and humor. She opened doors to a cultural Narnia that, 21 years post-grad, I’m still exploring with shock and awe.” —Cyndy Drew Etler ’02, G’03 Paul Rudick Louis Roberts : Late Professor Emeritus; Founder and Chair, Theatre Arts Department Gene Sharp : Former Professor, Political Science Nicholas Tawa : Late Professor Emeritus, Music Adorna Walia : Retired Professor, Hispanic Studies “It is so hard to choose any one professor because they were all so excellent, even the ones I didn’t mention. They were all great human beings who were very knowledgeable, engaging, dedicated, ethical, principled, student-centered, diligent, and inspiring. The faculty as a whole was superb, and my success in life is attributed to their wisdom and guidance.” —Leo Sandy ’70 Myron Segelman Late Professor, Nursing “He was 100 percent for the students. He was the type of professor who wanted each and every student to succeed.” —Louise Meehan ’90 Robert K. Shope Professor Emeritus, Philosophy “Robert Shope was my favorite professor, not simply because of his superior intellect but because of the seriousness and generosity with which he treated students’ work and contributions and, most of all, because of the things he said about how we should engage in philosophy and with other philosophers, and why we should pursue philosophy.” —Sara Ellenbogen ’89 Sandra Shuman Former Professor, German “Sandra was one of the most creative, out-of-the-box–thinking professors I ever had at UMass Boston. She pushed me to become a creative writer and thinker, and I used many of her techniques in my own classroom over my career. She taught me to take chances and to bet on myself — and I did.” —Debbie Hartman McCulley ’81 Amy Rex Smith Retired Professor, Nursing “Her approach to teaching was engaging and equitable. I felt supported and seen. I knew that with continued support at UMass Boston, our cohort would thrive at meeting the curriculum’s expectations and, furthermore, be well prepared for a professional career in nursing.” —Alessandra Adamo ’09, G’17, CER’20 Ed Stern Retired Professor, Sociology “Because working with Professor Stern prepared me for law school and a career in my advocacy work at Legal Aid WV and the state mental health authority.” —Elliott Birckhead ’87 Natalicia Tracy ’05, G’05 Former Associate Lecturer, Sociology “She always prioritized the success of her students and her method made the issues being studied seem very personal.” —Kristian Courtney ’21 Paul Tucker Professor Emeritus, Art “Paul was fantastic. He explained theories and the history behind the art we were studying. He also engaged the class in conversation by enabling discussion of our opinions and valuing our thoughts. The interesting aspect of attending UMass Boston was that there was always a range of ages and life experiences among the students. We learned from one another along with Paul’s instruction. Paul always valued our life experiences. Later on, when I was working at the Boston Public Library Fine Arts Department, Paul visited and I let him know how much he influenced my career choice. A very personable and caring professor. He also conducted his own research, wrote books, and stayed engaged as an art historian outside the classroom.” —Kathleen Dunn ’83 Paul Tucker Professor Emeritus, Art “He was a great teacher and always understood my point of view.” —Jenifer Simpson ’84, CER’85 Sindiso Mnisi Weeks Former Assistant Professor, Law and Society “Sindiso was the best because she knew how to challenge me for growth while affirming what I was doing well. She is brilliant, approachable, and caring.” —Kevin McCormack PhD’19 Christopher Zurn Associate Professor, Philosophy “Dr. Zurn cares deeply about his students as human beings and creates a classroom education that facilitates community building, intellectual curiosity, and the empowerment of learners.” —Perri Leviss G’14, CER’20, PhD ’20 Q: For our next issue, we want to know your favorite view on campus! To cast your vote, and for a chance to be featured in our next issue of Beacons , please visit alumni.umb.edu/yourtake ! UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms