- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Physics Professor to Use $360K NSF Grant to Study Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Physics Professor to Use $360K NSF Grant to Study Black Holes, Build Quantum Computer 08/18/2020 |
    Colleen Locke Alioscia Hamma Compares Black Hole to Quantum Computer Associate Professor of Physics Alioscia Hamma studying quantum open systems. If the United States is at the forefront of the quantum information industrial revolution, it will benefit the U.S. economy as a whole and create new opportunities for people from disadvantageous backgrounds. That’s one of the reasons why the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Associate Professor of Physics Alioscia Hamma a three-year $360,000 grant to study the transitions in quantum complexity. “My dream is to understand black holes and build a quantum computer,” Hamma said. Hamma, who will be starting his fifth year at UMass Boston in September, says in some sense, a black hole is a very powerful quantum computer, a computer that is exponentially faster than a classical computer and has a lot more processing power. Both a black hole and a quantum computer process quantum information. To build a quantum computer, he needs to understand how complexity builds up in a quantum system. The complexity of quantum information processing is captured by how well it reproduces some average properties of quantum evolutions. Hamma will be looking to see if he can drive transitions in quantum complexity and achieve a more universal coverage of the ensemble of quantum circuits by doping circuits made of a non-universal subgroup of the set of universal gates called Clifford group. The illustration below shows the scrambling of information by a black hole. “One of the properties of quantum mechanics is time invariant , that is, in principle every process can be reversed,” Hamma said. “The unlikeliness of reversibility depends on the complexity of the quantum process. There are processes that are very simple and can be easily reversed, and processes that are mind-bogglingly complex like the scrambling of information by a black hole.” The NSF grant starts September 1 and runs through August 31, 2023. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms