DSP Enrollment Checklist - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions Admitted Students Admitted Student Checklist DSP Enrollment Checklist Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Admitted Students Admitted Student Checklist First Year Enrollment Checklist Transfer Enrollment Checklist International Student Enrollment Checklist DSP Enrollment Checklist Advanced Credits Graduate Student Enrollment Checklist Submit Your Deposit Undergraduate Forms Graduate Forms Parents DACA & Undocumented DSP Enrollment Checklist Congratulations on your referral to the DSP Program at UMass Boston. There are still a few things left to do before you can call yourself a Beacon! Review the list below to be sure you have completed all steps. Be sure to contact the Office of Admissions at 617.287.6100 or undergrad.admissions@umb.edu with any questions. The DSP Program runs Monday, June 17, 2024 through Thursday, July 25, 2024. Submit your Admissions Confirmation Form Log into the Beacon Gateway to submit your DSP Admissions Confirmation Form. The deadline to submit this form is May 1 . The $250 New Student Enrollment Deposit is waived for you! If you plan to request on-campus housing for the fall semester be sure to indicate that on your Admissions Confirmation Form. You will then be prompted to pay the required $300 housing reservation fee. Claim your UMass Boston Account (WISER & Email) Three business days after submitting your DSP Admissions Confirmation Form, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will be provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: WISER - your UMass Boston student information system which you will access for registration, placement testing, etc. Webmail - your UMass Boston email account The Undergraduate Admissions office will also send you an email when you are able to claim your account. Complete Your Writing & Math Placement Writing and Math (ALEKS) Placement - All new DSP students will participate in a writing and math (ALEKS) assessment, which will result in determining your courses for the summer DSP program. The Undergraduate Admissions Office will send you an email with a link to each assessment a few days after you have submitted your DSP Admission Confirmation form. You may also access ALEKS instructions here . DSP students who have not taken a Language Assessment Test during the admission process are required to complete the online writing assessment . You have been informed via email if you will need to complete this assessment. Register for DSP Onboarding Session All new students are required to attend a two-hour DSP Onboarding Session from 5:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Thursday, May 30 (in-person) Thursday, June 6 (in-person) During the DSP Onboarding Session you will meet your fellow classmates and learn more about the coursework and expectations for the DSP program. Attendance at the DSP Onboarding Session is mandatory to begin in the program on Monday, June 17. New Student Orientation New Student Orientation, June 20 through June 21, is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, familiarize yourself with university resources, and so much more. This program is different from the two-hour DSP Onboarding Session and includes an overnight stay in our residence halls! Registration will be available in Beacon Gateway once you have registered for a two-hour DSP Onboarding Session. A Family Program will be available as well. Summer On-Campus Housing Summer housing is available during the 6-week summer DSP program. Submit your summer housing application online . Rates are $1,550 for a shared room with a private bathroom; or $1,340 for a shared room with community bathroom. Any additional questions about summer housing may be directed to summerhousing@umb.edu . On-Campus Housing (for the academic year) UMass Boston's on-campus residence halls provide community, access to campus happenings, and beautiful views of Boston and the Boston Harbor. On-campus housing is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Follow these steps to ensure your place in our residence halls: Submit your $300 Housing Reservation Fee in Beacon Gateway Create your UMass Boston account . 24 hours after having submitted your Housing Reservation Fee, log into your Housing Portal with your newly created UMass Boston credentials Complete your housing application and await an email from the Housing Office on next steps For more information about on-campus housing, visit our housing website or contact the Housing Office at housing@umb.edu or 617.287.6011. Off-Campus Housing UMass Boston's Office of Off-Campus Housing has staff and resources to assist new and continuing students with finding an off-campus residence. Contact the Office of Off-Campus Housing at offcampus@umb.edu or 617.287.6373. Get Your Financing in Order Be sure to file your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for consideration on financial aid and employment opportunities. If you have filed a FAFSA you will receive a financial aid award letter via Beacon Gateway . Remember that UMass Boston's One Stop staff is here to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar, and Bursar questions. Health Services: Immunization and Health Insurance To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. Explore Student Clubs and Organizations Getting involved on campus is one of the best ways to maximize satisfaction, overall experience, and academic performance. Explore student activities, clubs, and organizations before arriving on campus . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms