SAP FAQs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Financial Aid Apply for Financial Aid Maintain Your Eligibility SAP FAQs Menu menu Menu Apply for Financial Aid Eligibility & Important Dates Understanding FAFSA Verification Award Letter Cost Of Attendance Appeals Forms Counseling Staff Summer Financial Aid Winter Financial Aid Maintain Your Eligibility SAP (Satisfactory Academic Progress) SAP Appeals Process Submitting an SAP Appeal SAP FAQs Return of Title IV Funds Disbursement of Aid Completing Requirements Online Financial Aid Planner FAFSA Changes Student Loan Repayment Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Graduate Student Financial Aid Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Frequently Asked Questions Q: What is the purpose of Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)? A: Title IV Federal Financial Aid regulations (34 CFR 668.34) requires that schools monitor the academic progress of each applicant for federal financial assistance.  Students who are not meeting satisfactory academic progress towards their degree requirements are not eligible to receive financial aid. Q: What criteria is evaluated to determine SAP? A:  SAP is the measurement of a student’s academic progress toward his/her degree.  SAP evaluates three components to determine eligibility for financial aid: qualitative (cumulative grade point average), quantitative (pace) and maximum time frame allowed for degree completion. Q: How often is Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) calculated? A: The following groups of students are monitored at the end of each term: Students enrolled in a financial aid eligible certificate program Students whose SAP status are: Probation or Academic Plan All other students are monitored annually upon the receipt of their FAFSA. Q: What is pace? A: Pace is a measurement used to define a student’s academic progress towards completing their degree. All students must complete 67% of all credits/competencies attempted. Q: How do I calculate pace? A: Pace is calculated by dividing the total earned credits by total attempted credits. Q: What is the minimum grade point average (GPA) that I must maintain to meet SAP? A: Undergraduate students must maintain a GPA of 2.0 or higher. Graduate students must maintain a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Q: What is the maximum time frame requirement? A: All students are expected to complete their educational program in a timeframe no longer than 150% of its published length, as measured in credit hours. Q: How do I calculate the maximum time frame requirement? A: The maximum time frame requirement is calculated by multiplying the published program length by 150%. For example, an undergraduate pursuing a bachelor’s degree that requires 120 credits has a maximum time frame of 180 credits. Q: How are grades factored in GPA, pace and time frame? A: Successfully completed courses are considered attempted and earned in the GPA, pace and maximum time frame standards. Non-passing grades are considered attempted, but not earned, in pace and maximum time frame standards. Courses with a grade of Incomplete (INC) at the time of the SAP calculation will not be factored into the GPA. However, INC’s are considered credits attempted, not earned for pace and maximum time frame. When an Incomplete is converted to a grade (A, B, C, D, IF), at the next SAP calculation: The new grade is factored into the GPA It becomes credits earned in the pace requirement When a course is repeated, both grades appear in the transcript. However, only the second grade is factored into the GPA. Each repeat is considered an attempt for the pace and maximum time frame standards. Q. I have a Satisfactory Academic Progress hold on my account. What does that mean? How do I get it taken off? A. SAP holds are for financial aid purposes only, and they do NOT affect registration. This hold could be on your account for several reasons: 1. You are not meeting SAP standards and have not yet appealed, or your appeal has not yet been reviewed. 2. You are not meeting SAP standards and your appeal was denied. 3. After the add/drop period, Financial Aid Services places this hold on students with an academic plan. Your enrollment is then reviewed to ensure you are in compliance with your plan. The hold is removed if you are following your plan. If you are not following your plan, your hold will remain and you will not receive your financial aid. Q: Can I appeal my Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) status? A: Students who do not meet the minimum SAP requirements have the right to appeal when special circumstances exist.  Students must demonstrate that extenuating circumstances prevented them from meeting SAP.  For examples of extenuating circumstances, please view the SAP Appeal Instructions . Q: What is the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) appeal process for undergraduate students? A: Students with less than 49 credits and not meeting SAP for the first time must: Submit a Personal Statement. The statement must include why you (the student) failed to meet SAP standards, what has changed, and/or the steps you are taking to meet SAP standards by the time of the next evaluation. Submit supporting documentation Students with 49 credits or more OR who have previously appealed Submit a Personal Statement. The statement must include why you (the student) failed to meet SAP standards, what has changed, and/or the steps you are taking to meet SAP standards by the time of the next evaluation. Submit an Academic Plan. You must meet with your academic advisor to develop the plan. Follow the instructions in your WISER to-do list. Submit supporting documentation Q : How soon after submitting my appeal will I know the results? A: You will be sent an email notification to your UMB email address with the decision within 2 weeks of submitting a completed appeal. Q: What happens when a Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) appeal is approved? A: Undergraduate students who are not required to submit an academic plan will be placed on SAP Probation status for one term. During the SAP Probation period, the student is considered eligible for financial aid.  The student will be re-evaluated at the end of the probation term. Students who are required to submit an academic plan will be placed on SAP Academic Plan status for one term. During the SAP Academic Plan period, the student is considered eligible for financial aid.  The student will be re-evaluated at the end of the term. Q: What happens when a Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) appeal is denied? A: Denied appeals will result in the student continuing to be ineligible for financial aid.  The student may enroll in coursework but will be responsible for payment of their university bill.  Students who are notified that their appeal has been denied will have their academic progress reviewed at the end of the next annual evaluation period. Students whose appeals are denied are ineligible to submit any further SAP appeals. Q: My appeal was denied but I didn’t mention all of the circumstances that impacted my ability to make satisfactory academic progress. Can I submit another appeal to further explain my situation? A: Students are given one opportunity per term to appeal their financial aid suspension. Therefore, it is critical for students to submit all relevant information that affected their satisfactory academic progress. Q: How can financial aid eligibility be reinstated after an appeal has been denied? A: A student may regain financial aid eligibility by successfully meeting the University’s SAP policy requirements. Q. Can I get into good SAP standing by taking summer classes? A. Your SAP will only be updated at the end of the summer term if you have an approved summer SAP appeal on file. Otherwise, your summer grades won’t be factored into SAP until the next annual SAP evaluation period. Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms