Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Edward Collins Center for Public Management About Staff Menu menu Menu About Staff Recruitments Publications Services Collins Center Staff Leadership Michael Ward, Director Robert O'Keefe, Director of Operations Sarah Concannon, Director of Municipal Services Mary Aicardi Ray Shurtleff Morgan Clark Becca Meekins Heather Michaud Brianna Sunryd Anthony Wilson Associates Rob Addelson John Brackett Stephen Cirillo David Colton Amy Concannon Marilyn Contreas Elizabeth (Libby) Corbo Richard (Dick) Daly Stephen Foley Ed Gotgart Sandeep Jani Lindsay Katz Tom Kennedy Frederick Kingsley Richard (Dick) Kobayashi Philip Lemnios Patricia Lloyd Joseph MacRitchie David Pomerantz Tanya Shallop James Sutton James Tarr Anthony J. Torrisi Steven Ward Anne Wilson Collins Center Leadership Michael Ward, Director Charter and Organizational Structure Practice Area Team Lead 617.287.4876 michael.ward@umb.edu Mike Ward has been with the Center since 2008, serving as Director of Municipal Services before becoming Director in 2019. He co-founded and currently manages the Collins Center’s Government Analytics Program. Prior to his time at the Center, Ward served as budget analyst for the Town of Concord. In this role, he helped the Town begin integrating performance measurement into its annual budget process, assisted with the financial management of a Recreation Center enterprise fund, and worked on numerous budget and procurement projects. Ward studied innovative urban policy in Curitiba (Brazil) and Singapore as a Thomas J. Watson fellow. He looked at how these cities both managed to reshape themselves through creative public transportation, economic development, and service provision strategies. He has also worked on numerous political campaigns, including managing a mayoral campaign in Massachusetts. Degrees MPP, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University BA, Sociology, Amherst College Robert O'Keefe, Director of Operations 617.287.6226; FAX: 617.287.5566 robert.okeefe@umb.edu Rob O’Keefe has been with the Center since 2011, serving first as the Office Manager before becoming Director of Operations in 2015. Prior to his time at the Center, O’Keefe worked as Assistant to Dean in the McCormack Graduate School at UMass Boston. Mary Aicardi, Senior Associate mary.aicardi@umb.edu Human Resources Practice Area Team Lead Training and Professional Development Practice Area Team Lead Executive Recruitment Team Lead Mary Aicardi brings nearly thirty years of experience in public sector human resources administration and labor relations to the Collins Center. She served for more than eight years as the personnel director for the town of Watertown, where she negotiated numerous collective bargaining agreements on behalf of the Town. Additionally, Mary has worked as the assistant personnel director for the Town of Barnstable and as a recruiter for a nonprofit agency. She has served as an Interim Human Resource Director for the Town of Braintree and Lasell College. She is a management member of the Commonwealth’s Joint Labor Management Committee, serves on the Board of the Massachusetts Municipal Personnel Association as a past chair, and is certified by the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination as a trainer of discrimination and sexual harassment prevention. Aicardi has conducted training programs on a wide range of human resources topics, including performance appraisal, progressive discipline, and sexual harassment prevention, and has consulted with many cities and towns as a hearing officer in discipline cases and as an advisor in organizational restructuring. She has also reviewed and modernized classification and compensation plans for more than 50 municipalities. Mary is also an elected Town Meeting Member in her home town of Shrewsbury. Degrees MPA, University of Massachusetts Amherst BA, Political Science, University of Massachusetts Amherst Sarah Concannon, Director of Municipal Services Finance Practice Area Team Lead Operations Practice Area Team Lead sarah.concannon@umb.edu Sarah Concannon joined the Collins Center in 2012 as a Government Services Specialist before becoming the Director of Municipal Services in 2021. She has led and/or contributed to dozens of consulting engagements in the areas of performance management, municipal operations, and municipal finance across the Commonwealth. When she first joined the Center, Sarah staffed the Center’s Municipal Performance Management Program (MPMP) and later the Government Analytics Program (GAP). Previously she worked as a Research Assistant at the Carl Vinson Institute of Government in Athens, Georgia and provided research support for consulting projects including a municipal budget deficit reduction plan, water/sewer systems consolidation study, and city-county consolidation report. Sarah began her career as a Development Research Analyst at Clark University in Worcester. Sarah has also had training as a Certified Facilitator for the Massachusetts Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness (MVP) Program and completed the Public Contracting Overview seminar through the Massachusetts Certified Public Purchasing Official (MCPPO) Program. Degrees MPA, University of Georgia BA, Classics, Bucknell University Ray Shurtleff, Associate Schools Management and Leadership Practice Area Team Lead ray.shurtleff@umb.edu In addition to 22 years’ experience as a high school administrator, Ray has been a Director of Human Resources in Boston and Newton, and an interim HR Director in Fall River, Watertown, and the Boston Renaissance Charter School. Ray has also served as a labor/management collaboration coach with the Rennie Center/Massachusetts Education Partnership’s District Capacity Project from 2012 - 2017 and with the NEA Foundation’s Institute for Innovation in Teaching and Learning from 2012-2016. As an adjunct faculty member, he has taught a graduate human resource management course at UMass Boston, Boston College, Bridgewater State University, and Cambridge College. He also has been an instructor in the Massachusetts Association of School Business Officials’ Licensure program, affiliated with Worcester State University. Degrees CAGS, Boston University EdD, Northeastern University MA, Secondary Education, Northeastern University BA, History, Northeastern University Morgan Clark, Public Services Manager morgan.clark@umb.edu Morgan Clark practices in the areas of public health and human services, communications, public works, emergency management, policy evaluation, human resources, and a range of other policy areas. She previously served as Health Director and the Deputy Emergency Manager in Provincetown. Clark previously worked in county government and for health and human services nonprofits. Morgan holds a BA in Politics from Scripps College and an MS in Public Policy from the University of Massachusetts Boston. Becca Brienza Meekins, Public Services Manager becca.meekins@umb.edu Becca is a tenured local government professional with experience in all facets of local government management. Prior to joining the Center in 2023, she served as the Assistant Town Administrator/Human Resources Director for the Town of Northborough, MA, where she developed and implemented an updated classification and compensation plan, reorganized numerous departments, engaged in collective bargaining and labor relations, and led community efforts on diversity, equity, and inclusion.  Prior to her service in Northborough, she served as the Assistant Town Administrator for the Town of Grafton, MA where she developed a GFOA award winning budget document and capital plan and implemented the Financial Trend Monitoring System (FTMS) developed by the International City/County Management Association (ICMA) as a method for monitoring the financial condition of local governments. In addition, she co-chaired the Massachusetts Municipal Manager’s Association Committee on Diversity Equity and Inclusion, served on the Massachusetts Municipal Association’s Committee on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, the Massachusetts Municipal Human Resources Association, and the Massachusetts Women Leading Government Committee. Becca is a Massachusetts Certified Public Purchasing Officer. Degrees MPA, Clark University Heather Michaud, Public Services Manager heather.michaud@umb.edu After spending much of her early career in corporate banking, Heather transitioned into public service. For over a decade she has worked in public school district operations and finance, serving in positions such as data analyst, accountant, manager of accounting and systems, and director of fiscal affairs for Windham and Avon Public Schools in Connecticut. By writing, implementing, and training staff on best practice-based policies and procedures — covering a multitude of areas such as payroll, benefits, purchasing, accounting, facilities management, nutrition services operations, and student activities — Heather has transformed department activities into exemplary models. Her work implementing modern IT solutions and creating paperless workflows has generated greater efficiency, transparency, and accountability for school districts. Some of Heather’s proudest accomplishments include creating and implementing the first nutrition services consortium in Connecticut, designing benchmarking protocols for both certified and non-certified staff negotiation strategies, fashioning, negotiating and implementing health plan changes, instituting risk management practices to address workers compensation costs, and presenting on public school finance best practices at Quinnipiac University’s summer 092 administrative certificate program. Heather also serves as Treasurer for her regional school district PTO and sits on the Principal’s School Council. Brianna Sunryd, Public Services Manager Public Innovation Design Studio Team Lead Resilience & Sustainability Practice Area Team Lead brianna.sunryd@umb.edu Brianna Sunryd joined the Collins Center in 2023, after spending many years in various leadership roles in local government. Before joining the Center, she served the Town of Amherst as their Director of Communication and Civic Innovation, also acting as their Community Participation Officer. Brianna also worked for the City of Worcester, MA. Brianna has been very active in service and leadership to government focused professional associations and boards such as the MMA, ICMA, National Research Center, Massachusetts Digital Government Summit, and more. Areas of interest and strength include innovation and emerging technologies, communications, community engagement, human-centered design, language justice, strategic planning, process improvement, professional development, and public participation. She’s dedicated much of her public service career to centering community members in policy decisions and program design, implementation, and evaluation. Brianna serves on multiple boards, including the Amherst Personnel Board. Degrees MPP, School of Public Policy University of Massachusetts Amherst BA, Communications, University of Massachusetts Amherst Anthony I. Wilson, Esq., Public Services Manager Charter and Organizational Structures Practice Area Team Lead anthony.wilson@umb.edu Anthony Ivan Wilson, Esq. joined the Collins Center in 2022.  He practices in the areas of data analytics, public management, public sector innovation, climate change planning, charter review, and DEIA planning. He previously served as City Clerk for the City of Cambridge, where he led the office through the COVID-19 pandemic.  He implemented programs to modernize the Clerk’s Office’s internal processes.  He also enabled residents to access several city services online.  During Attorney Wilson’s tenure in Cambridge, he participated in the city’s municipal broad band and digital equity study.  Prior to Cambridge, Attorney Wilson served the City Clerk and Associate City Solicitor for the City of Springfield.  In those roles, he helped to negotiate the construction the $600 million Springfield casino and he drafted the city’s cannabis regulation.  He has also served on several board and committees, including the Advisory Board for the Pioneer Valley Transportation Authority and the Association of Black Businesses and Professionals. Degrees JD, Suffolk University Law School BA, Clark Atlanta University Collins Center Staff Rob Addelson robert.addelson@umb.edu Rob Addelson practices in the areas of management of accounting, treasury, collection, assessing and purchasing functions, operating and capital budget development, debt issuance and management, revenue and expenditure forecasting, and assessment of municipal financial management organization and capacity. From 2006 to 2017, Addelson served as the Assistant Town Manager for Finance in the Town of Lexington responsible for the management of all aspects of the Town’s financial operations and as a member of the Town’s Appropriation (Finance) Committee and the Lexington Retirement Board. From 2003 to 2006, he served as the Chief Financial Officer for the Arlington Public Schools with responsibility for the development and monitoring of the school department’s annual operating budget and capital budget as well as accounts payable, purchasing, transportation, building maintenance, custodial services and food services. From 2001 to 2003, he served as Chief Financial Officer for the Town of Framingham and from 1995 to 2001 as the Director of Finance for the Town of Needham. From 1987 to 1995, he served in various positions in the Division of Local Services of the Massachusetts Department of Revenue, the last of which was as Chief of the Municipal Data Management and Technical Assistance Bureau. Rob served as Chair of the Legislature-created Lawrence Fiscal Oversight Board from 1990 t0 1995 working with the Mayor and City Council to bring fiscal stability to the City of Lawrence, MA. He served as a member of the Massachusetts Municipal Associations’ Fiscal Policy Committee from 2000 to 2005 and as a member of the Massachusetts Government Finance Officers Association during his tenure as a local official. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from North Carolina State University and a Master’s Degree from the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill in City and Regional Planning. John Brackett john.brackett@umb.edu John R. Brackett practices in the areas of executive searches, leadership development, and k-12 education. His career has included serving as superintendent of schools for 22 years, as well as high school math teacher, high school principal, assistant superintendent, researcher, leadership coach, and consultant in Massachusetts, Michigan and California. He also was VP-General Manager of a manufacturing company in Indiana. His school district leadership resulted in demonstrated success in creating high performing leadership teams at the school and district level, a collaborative and continuous improvement culture that leads to student success, and an emphasis on data-driven decision making, responsible and sustainable budgeting and resource allocation and strong school committee-administration working relationships. John recently served as transitional superintendent for the Weston Public Schools and Watertown Public Schools where, among a number of collaboratively identified initiatives, he supported the local School Committee and district in recruiting and selecting its next superintendent. John holds a Doctorate in Administration and Policy Analysis from Stanford University, a MA in Administration from the University of Notre Dame, and a BS in mathematics from Central Michigan University. Stephen Cirillo stephen.cirillo@umb.edu Stephen "Steve" E. Cirillo practices in the areas of financial forecasting, capital improvement planning, financial policies, training, budget process, PILOTs, and OPEB strategies. Cirillo progressed rapidly from serving as a budget analyst for the City of New York and the Town of Brookline, to leadership roles including Chief Budget Officer and Treasurer Collector for the City of Newton and Deputy Town Administrator and Finance Director/Treasurer Collector for the Town of Brookline. He has served for 34 years on the Massachusetts Municipal Association (MMA) Fiscal Policy Committee and continues in this role today. Steve was one of the original founders of the Massachusetts Municipal Finance Officers Association and is a past president. He has been an Adjunct Professor at the Suffolk and Northeastern University MPA programs, and is currently serving as an Adjunct Professor for the MMA/Suffolk University Certification Program. Steve has several publications on topics ranging from Revenue and Expenditure Forecasting, Long Range Capital Planning, PILOT Negotiations, OPEB Planning, and Policy Budgeting. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree from Northeastern University and a Master in Public Administration from the Maxwell Graduate School at Syracuse University. David Colton david.colton@umb.edu David Colton practices in the areas of management, HR, energy & housing policy, capital programming and budgeting, public works operations, and collective bargaining. His experience includes twelve years as Commissioner of Public Works in the City of Quincy and twelve years as Town Administrator in Milton and Easton. David has gained expertise in infrastructure planning and construction including public buildings, water, wastewater, and stormwater facilities, solar facilities, landfills, and roads and bridges. His experience in public construction includes many projects involving extensive permitting such historic preservation, and environmental protection. He has been a leader in the development of successful public/private partnerships such as the Ames Shovel Works development in Easton and the Granite Links Golf Course in Quincy and Milton. He has implemented management and organizational reforms, conducted difficult negotiations, led master-planning, authored by-laws, streamlined operations, and reimagined communities. He currently serves on the Joint labor Management Committee and the CHAPA Policy Leadership Council. David holds a bachelor of science in Public Administration from Bentley University and a Master of Business Administration from the University of Massachusetts Boston. Amy Concannon amyconcannon@umb.edu Amy Concannon joined the Collins Center in 2020 and works across all of the Center's practice areas, providing research and data analysis. Her previous experience includes working as the Research Director for a State Representative where she worked closely with the state budget process, researched proposed bills, and helped compose legislation. Amy holds a BS from Simmons College in International Relations and Economics. Marilyn Contreas marilyn.contreas@umb.edu Marilyn Contreas practices in the areas of government structure and organization and regional service arrangements/operations. She served as a senior program and policy analyst for the Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community Development for over 35 years. She worked with charter commissions, municipal government study committees, and other local officials on questions of structure and organization of local government. She also served as the state’s representative to the working group to prepare a new charter for the city of Chelsea as it emerged from receivership. She has served as a resource on charter-related questions to the Massachusetts Municipal Association, and local Leagues of Women Voters. She has also designed and administered grant programs for municipal governments, and regional planning agencies. She holds a bachelor’s degree from Webster College in St. Louis, Missouri and a Master of Public Administration from the State University of New York at Albany. Elizabeth Corbo elizabeth.corbo@umb.edu Attorney Elizabeth "Libby" Corbo practices in the areas of human resources, labor, and employment. Previously she practiced public sector labor, employment and school law at a prominent public sector law firm. In that role, Corbo advised municipalities on HR practice, conducted trainings, drafted polices and represented public employers in all aspects of employment issues, including employment litigation, negotiations and grievances. Corbo also represented school districts in employment issues and student services, including 504 and IEP plans, and student services. In addition to advising municipalities, Corbo also worked as an attorney with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination. Corbo currently serves as a member of the local School Committee, and is Chairman of the School Building Committee. Corbo holds a Juris Doctor from Boston University Law School and a dual Bachelors degree in Psychology and Criminal Justice from Elmira College. Richard "Dick" Daly richard.daly@umb.edu Richard "Dick" Daly practices in the areas of Information technology reviews, staff succession planning, strategic planning assistance, municipal/district collaboration/merger analysis, and application systems/process analysis and review. He has over 40 years of information technology experience in the private and public sectors. Dick’s experience includes management of IT organizations, IT integration, and commercial off-the-shelf software implementation project management. He has managed IT-related activities from software implementations to moving data centers, turned around and restarted projects that had stalled or failed, facilitated vendor selection, mentored newly appointed project managers, and undertaken extensive IT system reviews and assessments. Dick has worked extensively with enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, providing functional application consulting, project management, and implementation planning services as an independent consultant, and also with IBM Global Services. Industry experience ranges from consumer products to aerospace to municipal government. From 2006 to 2010 he served as project manager for an ERP implementation project with the City of Springfield, comprising full financials, purchasing, tax billing, work orders, labor collection and payroll/human resource applications. Daly is certified as a Project Management Professional (PMP) by the Project Management Institute. He holds an MBA in finance from the A.D. Barney School, University of Hartford, and a BS in business administration from Rider University. Stephen Foley stephen.foley@umb.edu Stephen Foley practices in the areas of emergency management, regional emergency communications, and fire/emergency medical services. He retired as Deputy Director, Special Operations Division for the United States Capitol Police. He was the principal planner /operations director for the integration of all divisions of the US Capitol Police into operations capabilities for Haz-Mat/WMD response for an agency that represented 2,800 sworn officers and over 300 civilian support staff. He has served on a FEMA Urban Search and Rescue Team, and on a Type 1 National Wildfire Coordinating Group (NWCG) National Incident Management Team. Additionally, he served as Fire Chief/EMS/EMD Director in two municipalities in the Commonwealth. He holds a A.S. from Mt. Wachusett Community College, a graduate of the Massachusetts Office of Fire Services, Chief Fire Officer Program, a graduate of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Executive Fire Officer Program, and the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University National Preparedness Leadership Program. Ed Gotgart edward.gotgart@umb.edu Ed Gotgart practices in the areas of school administration, finance, and operations.  He has served in a wide variety of school assignments from classroom teacher to Superintendent during his 45 years in education, and has held leadership positions in K-12 public schools (Wellesley and Framingham), charter schools (Boston University Residential Charter School, South Shore Charter School and Lawrence Family Development Charter School), independent schools (St. Mark’s School and Hillside School) and Catholic schools (St. Dominic Savio Preparatory High School).  He holds national certification from the Association of School Business Officials (Registered School Business Administrator) and has a Bachelor of Arts from Harvard College, a Master of Urban Studies from Yale, a Master of Education from Harvard Graduate School of Education and a Doctorate in Education from Boston University School of Education. Tom Kennedy thomas.kennedy@umb.edu Thomas "Tom" J. Kennedy practices in the areas of public Safety consolidation, regional emergency communications and law enforcement services. He is a retired Lt. Colonel/Deputy Superintendent in the Massachusetts State Police and was the principal planner for the consolidation of the four statewide police agencies into the Department of State Police, an agency that represented 2350 sworn officers and 400 civilian support staff. Shortly after consolidation was completed the Department consolidated 45 towns in Central and Western Massachusetts into three Regional Emergency Communications Centers. As the Chief Administrative Officer from 1992 to 1996 Lt. Colonel (ret.) Kennedy oversaw a budget of $140 million dollars and a capital budget of $50 million. During this time, he would oversee multiple technology projects that resulted in the assessment and procurement of radio systems, dispatch centers and information technology. Since retiring Tom has overseen the twelve feasibility studies in Massachusetts for thirty-four municipalities and has provided other consulting or project management services to communities that have or are in the process of consolidating those services. He holds a BS from Northeastern University, an MA in Criminal Studies from The American International College, and a MBA from Anna Maria College. Lindsay Katz Lindsay.katz@umb.edu Lindsay Katz practices in the areas of Human Resources including policy, recruitment, classification, and compensation.  She has 10 years of Human Resources experience from Fallon Health and The TJX Companies, and held the position of Human Resources Administrator for the town of Boylston.  Lindsay holds a bachelor’s degree in Marketing and Management from Westfield State University.  She has served as a member of a municipal ADA Committee and Town Administrator Search Committee. Frederick Kingsley frederick.kingsley@umb.edu Frederick “Rick” Kingsley practices in the areas of municipal finance, local aid, and school/regional school finance. From 1995 to June of 2015, Rick served as Bureau Chief of the Municipal Data Management and Technical Assistance Bureau at the state Division of Local Services. Major responsibilities included supervising the Division’s municipal consulting services, overseeing the distribution of local aid and directing the publication of municipal financial data to the Division’s website. Over his career, Kingsley has managed more than 400 consulting engagements with Massachusetts municipalities that examined issues such as financial condition, municipal management and organizational structure. He was appointed by the Secretary of Administration and Finance to chair state finance control boards for two regional school districts in severe fiscal crisis; the Nashoba Regional School District (2002) and the Athol-Royalston Regional School District (2006). Kingsley was also appointed to serve on the Brockton (1992) and Lawrence (1996) state control boards when these cities faced deep deficits. He holds a Master of Urban Affairs from Boston University and a Bachelor of Science in Economics from Trinity College in Hartford, CT. Richard "Dick" Kobayashi richard.kobayashi@umb.edu Richard "Dick" Kobayashi practices in the areas of executive recruitment and organizational studies. Dick served for over a decade as director of the Commonwealth’s technical assistance programs for municipalities, as aide to the mayor in Malden, as director of planning and development in Lawrence, as a staff member of the Community Development Department in Cambridge, and as a senior planner at the MWRA. He created the Commonwealth’s Incentive Aid program, which professionalized over one hundred municipal positions and while in Lawrence authored the Lawrence Plan, a comprehensive plan for physical and social development. At the MWRA, Kobayashi oversaw development of the Sewerage Analysis and Management System (SAMS) that provides system-wide hydraulic modeling capability. He has also served as an elected official in his hometown of Belmont. Kobayashi worked as an independent consultant from 1995 to 2004 serving municipalities in the US and former Soviet Union. Between 2004 and 2007 Kobayashi served as Resident Municipal Advisor under USAID auspices in Kosovo. Dick was a Loeb Fellow at Harvard University where he studied urban policy. He holds a master of public administration from Northeastern University and a bachelor of arts in economics from the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Philip Lemnios philip.lemnios@umb.edu Philip Lemnios joined the Collins Center in 2024 as an Associate. Philip served as a Massachusetts local government manager for over 33 years. Throughout Philip’s career he has offered innovative solutions to many issues that communities address. Working in complex regulatory, operational, labor, and political environments required strategic planning and in-depth knowledge regarding best practices. Philip has worked in leadership positions in the City of Attleboro as the Assistant to two Mayor’s, the Town Administrator of Natick, and the Town Manager of Hull. He has developed a broad range of skills required to successfully manage in the local government environment. Skills sets include strategic and financial planning, human resource management, capital planning, project management and community engagement. Philip holds a Master Degree of Public Administration from the University of Southern California, a Certificate of Special Studies in Administration and Management from Harvard University Extension School and a Bachelor of Arts –Communications from the University of Massachusetts. He served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Zaire (Congo), Africa. Philip’s Peace Corps experience helped to define his passion for government service as a means to improve the quality of life citizens. Patricia Lloyd patricia.lloyd@umb.edu Patricia "Pat" Lloyd practices in the areas of municipal management and human resources. Prior to joining the Center, she practiced law in the fields of labor and employment, civil rights, and constitutional law. As the managing editor and compliance attorney for Quinlan Publishing Group, she oversaw more than 35 monthly and biweekly periodicals providing management and grant advice for cities and towns and their employees. Closer to home, Patricia has served as a member of her local conservation commission and on several volunteer committees in the Town of Reading, where she was an elected Town Meeting Member for 15 years. Patricia has been a director and officer of several nonprofit organizations, including the Reading Open Land Trust, where she served for 12 years to acquire and maintain open space. Patricia holds a BA in Political Science and a JD from Marquette University. Joseph MacRitchie joseph.macritchie@umb.edu Attorney Joseph A. (Jay) MacRitchie practices in the area of professional recruitment. He has over 35 years of public sector management experience including 23 years in the City of Quincy Solicitor's Office covering 3 mayoral administrations, as well as 8 years as Executive Director of the Quincy Housing Authority.  He also served 20 years as a Governor's appointee to the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority Board of Directors overseeing the $4 billion Boston Harbor cleanup, where he chaired the Administration and Finance as well as the Wastewater Policy subcommittees. As Board Secretary, he served 7 years on the MWRA Employees' Retirement Board.  He holds a BS from Northeastern University as well as a Juris Doctor, cum laude, from New England School of Law. He has been licensed to practice law in the Commonwealth since 1982. David Pomerantz david.pomerantz@umb.edu David joined the Collins Center in 2022 and practices in the areas of facilities management, municipal emergency operations and climate adaptation and resilience. With educational and professional backgrounds covering city planning, public administration and construction management, David focuses on planning, people and technology to address issues and opportunities within social, natural and built environments. Prior to joining the Collins Center, David was the director of facilities management for Northampton, MA. David has worked with the International City Management Association as the Energy Programs Director to provide technical assistance programs for city and county managers across the country. He worked with public administrators to address municipal operations and community energy cost and supply issues through the development of regulatory and policy initiatives. David’s experience as a FEMA Disaster Reservist, along with the many years he spent as a firefighter, adds to his understanding of the issues surrounding emergency management and the mitigation of community impacts. He is a certified mediator, has a BA in Community Planning and Urban Design from the University of Cincinnati and a Climate Resilience Certificate for Professionals from the Antioch University Center for Climate Preparedness and Community Resilience. David is a dedicated team player with good problem-solving skills. He is a clear communicator who is able to work with and support diverse groups. Strong writing and public speaking skills enable David to advance organization’s missions and build support for their efforts. He is now focusing his efforts on increasing community and regional resilience in light of accelerating climate change. Tanya Shallop tanya.shallop@umb.edu Tanya Shallop practices in the areas of human resources, management, organizational structure, departmental start-up and evaluations, and IT project management. She has served as the Assistant Town Administrator and Human Resources Director for the Town of Middleton. With the Collins Center she has worked on the Charters of Amherst, Framingham, Fall River, and other cities and towns; led the startup of 311 Departments in Revere, Haverhill, and Everett; and performed Human Resources analysis, project management, and data analysis in numerous cities and towns throughout the State. She holds a BA in Sociology from Bates College and a JD from Case Western Reserve University School of Law. James Sutton james.sutton@umb.edu James Sutton practices in the areas of  Public Libraries and Public Library Networks and Consortiums, He has 35 years of public library experience, including 30 years as a public library director in the municipalities of Natick and Andover. Jim has experience in budgeting, staff development, goal-setting, as well as experience working with other community's libraries and departments within a town on goal-setting and mission development. Having served as president of the state-wide regional library system and two library networks, he is particularly interested in helping organizations develop and implement shared goals. He holds an undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College, a Master of Library Science from Simmons and a Master of Public Administration from Framingham State College. James Tarr james.tarr@umb.edu James Tarr practices in the areas of data analytics, public management, budget creation, capital improvement planning, municipal permitting process review, human resources classification and compensation, and a range of other policy areas. His areas of interests also include economic development and planning, emergency management and vulnerability preparedness, financial management review, organizational structure review, process mapping, transportation, and Charter review. He previously served as Deputy Director of Marlborough Economic Development Corporation, where he oversaw long-term planning efforts, managed a suite of financial programs, and helped secure grant funding for revitalization efforts. Tarr has previously worked in municipal government, at nonprofits, and on political campaigns ranging from local races to the 2012 presidential election as an organizer in South Florida. He holds a Master in Urban and Regional Policy from Northeastern University and two bachelor degrees from University of Massachusetts Lowell. Anthony J. Torrisi anthony.torrisi@umb.edu Anthony Torrisi practices in the areas of Municipal Financial Management, Budgeting, Forecasting, Capital Programs, and Policy Development. He has over 40 years of experience in municipal government. This experience included 32 years as the Director of Finance and Budget for the Town of Andover, four years as a Budget Assistant in the City of Worcester, and one and a half years as intern/acting assistant town manager in Danvers. In Andover, he was responsible for the Town’s financial planning including the development of the annual budget and 5-year capital improvement plan. Torrisi often served as town manager during town manager absences and was appointed by the Board of Selectmen to two lengthy periods as Acting Town Manager during the recruitment process for Andover town managers. He was a founding member of the Massachusetts Government Finance Officers Association and its first president. During his appointment in Andover, the Town received the GFOA Budget Presentation Award and a AAA bond rating from S&P. Tony has been invited to give many presentations over the years to various state and local associations on many government finance topics including budget presentation, capital planning, goal setting and financial forecasting. He holds a Bachelor of Arts from Boston College and a Master of Business Administration from Northeastern University. Anne Wilson anne.wilson@umb.edu Dr. Anne Wilson practices in the areas of school district executive searches, school district leadership development and management, K-12 Human Resources, and K-12 Education. Anne’s experience in the field of education includes 7 years as superintendent of schools in Sudbury, MA and 3 years as assistant superintendent for human resources in Brookline, MA.  In addition, Anne has experience as a middle school principal, assistant principal, and mathematics instructor (middle school, high school, and junior college) in California, Pennsylvania, and Florida.  Anne’s experience includes leadership and development of high-performing teams at the school and district levels focused on meeting diverse student needs through collaboration and a focus on continuous improvement. She also served as the founding principal of Diablo Vista Middle School in Danville, CA with responsibility to supervise construction of the building, conduct all hiring, and develop programmatic design for the new school.  Anne also has taught a doctorate level human resources management course at Boston College as an adjunct faculty member. Anne holds a PhD in Educational Administration from Boston College, a MS degree in Curriculum from California State University, East Bay, and a BS degree in Mathematics and Secondary Education from Bloomsburg University. Steven Ward steven.ward2@umb.edu Steven J. Ward practices in public health management, administration, and infrastructure analysis. He has over 30 years of experience in municipal government. This experience includes 5 years as the Director of Public Health for the Town of Braintree and 17 years as the Director of Public Health for the Town of Watertown.  In Watertown he was responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of state and local public health and environmental health regulations, implementation and development of community health and emergency preparedness programs, the creation of core department municipal positions and development and oversight of the health department budget.  He has served for over 32 years as an executive board member for the Massachusetts Environmental Health Association (MEHA) and is a past president.  Steve is a Registered Environmental Health Specialist (REHS), a Certified Health Officer (CH0). He currently serves as the Vice Chair of the Massachusetts Certified Health Officer Board (CHO Board).  He is a member of the University of Massachusetts Amherst School of Public Health and Health Science Advisory Board (SPHHS) and the Boston University School of Public Health Alumni Leadership Council.  Since 2008 Steve has served as a site practitioner for the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). In this role he assesses the accreditation criteria for accredited university schools and programs of public health regarding student practicums and internships in state and local government. He has been an adjunct professor at Worcester State University Health Science program since 2008 where he taught and mentored numerous graduate and undergraduate public health students. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from Worcester State University, a Master of Arts in Biological Science from Anna Maria College, and a Master of Public Health (MPH) degree from Boston University School of Public Health. Edward J. Collins, Jr. Biography Throughout his long and outstanding public career, Edward J. Collins, Jr. epitomized the spirit and goals of the Center for Public Management that now bears his name. Read More Collins Center Reports Check out our publications page for reports from recent projects. Read More Collins Center Services The Center’s aim is to enable public entities to provide a variety of high quality consulting services to the people we serve on a sustainable basis. Read More UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms