The Arts at UMass Boston - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts The Arts at UMass Boston Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office The Arts at UMass Boston Whether you're looking for a piece of art to challenge your mind, theatre to enjoy, or music to inspire, the University of Massachusetts Boston campus has something for you. The Recital Hall Reknown for its stellar acoustics and the center of music at UMass Boston, The Recital Hall is a 160-seat performance space, and home to The UMass Boston Orchestra, The UMass Boston Jazz Ensembles, The UMass Boston Chamber Singers and University Chorus. The Performing Arts Department presents a series of concerts by these student ensembles, and frequntly hosts guest artists and faculty performances. The UMass Boston Orchestra is comprised of students, faculty, staff, and musicians from the Greater Boston Area. The 40 person orchestra performs a wide range of repertoire from the Classical, Romantic, and Contemporary eras, every semester. Those interested in joining are encouraged to contact Sommer Forrester, Director of Orchestra Ensemble and Coordinator of Music Education, at sommer.forrester@umb.edu The UMass Boston Chambers Singers is a vocal ensemble with members chosen by audition. The University Chorus is open to all as a one-credit course, with audition only for vocal placement. They perform together at the end of each semester. Those with questions can contact Director of Choral Ensembles at david.giessow@umb.edu . The UMass Boston Jazz Ensembles perform for two nights each semester, with a program filled with improvisational interpretations of classic and contemporary jazz. Questions about Jazz at UMass Boston, or the audition process, contact Director of Jazz Ensembles Peter Janson at peter.janson@umb.edu Take a Seat : Support the arts by dedicating a seat in University Hall's state-of-the-art performance space. University Hall Theatre Opened for fall of 2016, the University Hall Theatre is home to the Performing Arts Department’s Theatre Program’s mainstage productions, and the annual Spring Dance Concert. A highly versatile black-box theatre, the space can be configured for theater-in-the-round, thrust stage, traditional proscenium, or fully invented configuration for a range of theater offerings. Our students, with a faculty of professional theatre artists, engage in every facet of making theatre through productions, classes, practicums, and rigorous rehearsal processes. They act, design and build sets, execute light and sound designs. They are stage managers, costume designers, board operators, dramaturgs, and make-up artists. The Dance Program, available as a minor at UMass Boston, showcase student choreographed pieces, from large ensembles to solo works, each spring. Backstage, UMass Boston theatre arts and dance students enjoy pristine dressing rooms, a constantly busy scene shop, full costume shop, and work with state of the art lighting and sound equipment. The University Hall Theatre is located on the first floor of University Hall. Theatre Arts productions range from contemporary to classics, from big musicals to boisterous comedies to thought-provoking dramas. Keep up with all Performing Arts Events by joining our Facebook Page. The UMass Boston Orchestra The UMass Boston Orchestra is comprised of students, faculty, staff, and musicians from the Greater Boston Area. Led by conductor Sommer Forrester, PhD, the 40 person orchestra performs a wide range of repertoire from the Classical, Romantic, and Contemporary eras, every semester. Originally formed in 1966, and revitalized in 1992 under Jon Mitchell, the UMass Boston Orchestra presents students with an opportunity to play alongside seasoned musicians, rehearse as an ensemble, and perform for the community. Since Fall of 2016, the Orchestra rehearses and performs in the University Hall Recital Hall, a newly constructed 160-seat auditorium. Sommer Forrester took the helm in 2015, looking to build on the orchestra’s tradition and increasing opportunities for student participation. Members of the community, including UMass Boston faculty and staff, interested in joining the Orchestra should contact sommer.forrester@umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms