Immunizations & Health Requirements - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Health Services Immunizations & Health Requirements Menu menu Menu About Emergencies Health Happenings Counseling Center General Medicine Wellness Patient Resources Immunizations & Health Requirements Uploading Documentation Exemptions Forms Billing My Health Beacon Portal General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu Immunizations & Screening Requirements Schedule a COVID/Flu Shot with Osco Pharmacy for 9/23 & 9/30 Here! University policy and Massachusetts Immunization Laws 105 CMR 220.00 and 105 CMR 220.600 require all full-time undergraduate and graduate students under 30 years of age**, as well as all full-time and part-time Health Sciences and International Students (including Visiting Scholars and Foreign Exchange Students), to be immunized. While these are the minimum requirements, we recommend all students be immunized to prevent outbreaks. Proof of immuinzation compliance must be provided before the start of classes. Failure to submit proof of immunizations will result in an academic hold. **12+ credits = full-time undergraduate; 9+ credits = full-time graduate. Students in the College of Nursing and Health Sciences (CNHS) students have additional requirements, and not all exemptions apply. Residential students are required to satisfy all screening and immunization requirements regardless of age or credits before moving in. Guidelines for Immunizations and Screenings Immunizations and Screenings Required for All Students (regardless of age or credits) Tuberculosis (TB) Screening Questionnaire All UMass Boston students must complete the web-based questionnaire by logging into the My Health Beacon Portal. For instructions on accessing the form, read more here. Some international students will need to test after entering the U.S. Students from high-risk countries must test for tuberculosis or submit documentation of a test administered after entry into the U.S. Testing should occur within 3 months of entry. Accepted Tests: A tuberculosis skin test or blood test (IGRA) . A chest x-ray is only required if someone tests positive. Students who test positive for TB must be evaluated by a healthcare provider and cleared. Use the TB Clearance Form for this. Students with a history of a positive TB test should not be retested but should complete the TB Clearance Form . All required screenings can be obtained on-campus at University Health Services or off-campus by a provider of choice. Immunizations Required for Full-Time Undergraduate and Graduate Students (Under 30), International Students, and Health Sciences Students Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMRII) Two doses required. The first dose must be administered after the first birthday with a minimum of 4 weeks (28 days) between doses. Serologic (blood test) evidence of immunity is also accepted (must include official lab report). Students born in the U.S. before 1957 are exempt (exemption does not apply to CNHS students). Hepatitis B Three doses of Hepatitis B or Hep A & B combined with a minimum of 4 weeks (28 days) between the first and second doses and 6 months between the first and third doses. Alternatively, two doses of HEPLISAV-B, with a minimum of 4 weeks between doses (must be at least 18 years old). Serologic (blood test) evidence of immunity is also accepted (must include official lab report). Pertussis (Tdap) One dose required, administered on or after age 7 and no earlier than June 2005. The Tdap vaccine also satisfies the 10-year booster dose requirement for Tetanus and Diphtheria (Td). Tetanus & Diphtheria (Td) One (1) booster dose of a vaccine containing Tetanus and Diphtheria is required every 10 years after an age-appropriate dose of a Tdap vaccine (administered on or after age 7). Varicella (VZV) Two doses required, with the first dose administered after the first birthday and a minimum of 4 weeks between doses. Serologic (blood test) evidence of immunity is also accepted (must include official lab report). An official letter from a licensed healthcare provider indicating the age of chickenpox illness is also accepted. Students born in the U.S. before 1957 are exempt (exemption does not apply to CNHS students). Meningococcal Conjugate: MenACWY (MCV4) Required for all full-time students under 22 years of age and all students living on-campus. One dose must be administered on or after the 16th birthday. All required and recommended immunizations can be obtained on-campus at University Health Services or off-campus by a provider of choice. Highly Recommended Immunizations Influenza (Flu) One dose recommended annually for all college students. CNHS students are required to have the influenza vaccine annually. Meningococcal Serotype B (Men B) The Men B vaccine series is recommended for adolescents and young people aged 16-23 years. Human Papillomavirus (HPV) The HPV vaccine is safe and effective, protecting against diseases (including cancers) caused by HPV. COVID-19 Updated Vaccine UMass Boston strongly recommends all students receive an updated COVID-19 dose when eligible. Visit the CDC's official COVID-19 Vaccine page for current updates and eligibility guidance. All required and recommended immunizations can be obtained on-campus at University Health Services or off-campus by a provider of choice. Exemptions from Requirements Students may request an exemption from any immunization requirement due to religious or medical accommodations under state and federal law. Note that exemptions cannot be submitted for the Tuberculosis (TB) Screening Questionnaire, which all students are required to complete on the My Health Beacon Portal. For more details, read more about Exemptions from Requirements . Submitting Your Immunization Documents Immunizations can be obtained off-campus or at University Health Services. Proof of immunization must be submitted via the My Health Beacon Portal before the start of classes to avoid an academic hold. For more details and instructions, read more about Uploading Documentation . If you have any questions or need assistance, please contact University Health Services at: Phone: (617) 287-5660 Email: UHS@umb.edu Fax: 617-287-3977 Mail: UHS General Medicine, 100 Morrissey Blvd., Boston, MA 02125 General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms