Liberal Arts - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give College of Liberal Arts Liberal Arts menu Liberal Arts Academics Departments Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office The McCormack School Embracing the Power of a Liberal Arts Education At our vibrant and inclusive college, we embrace the power of liberal arts education to foster critical thinking, creativity, and a deep understanding of the world. Immerse yourself in a dynamic learning environment where small class sizes allow for personalized attention and meaningful interactions with faculty and peers. Engage in lively discussions, collaborative projects, and hands-on experiences that deepen your understanding of the subject matter and equip you with valuable skills for success in a wide range of careers. Why Choose the College of Liberal Arts? As one of the largest liberal arts colleges in New England, we offer a diverse range of programs and opportunities that inspire intellectual curiosity and prepare students for a rapidly evolving global landscape. Whether aspiring to be a critical thinker, a creative problem-solver, or an engaged global citizen, the College of Liberal Arts at UMass Boston empowers students to embrace endless possibilities for personal and professional fulfillment. Liberal Arts menu Liberal Arts Academics Departments Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office The McCormack School Diverse Majors & Fulfilling Careers Explore our extensive selection of majors, including English, History, Psychology, Sociology, Political Science, and many more. Our distinguished faculty, comprised of accomplished scholars and dedicated educators, are committed to nurturing your intellectual growth and helping you reach your full potential. Explore Majors & Programs Engaging Learning Environment As a student in the College of Liberal Arts, you'll have access to state-of-the-art facilities, research centers, and internship opportunities that enrich your educational journey. Our partnerships with local organizations and institutions in the vibrant city of Boston provide valuable real-world experiences and networking opportunities. Research & Impact Expert Faculty & Staff Academic Departments Liberal Arts Education Student Testimonials Hear from our liberal arts students themselves as they share their experiences. Once I started, I was so happy that I did because UMass Boston is the perfect place for me to learn what I need to in order to give help back. When I got the opportunity to move here, I jumped on it. I work at Fenway, study at UMass Boston, and I live in Charlestown. Being here is a dream come true for me. Stefan Ghelli, Psychology Major I chose UMass Boston because the music program is so amazing. I've learned how to create better tone and improve my practicing skills. I can branch out to different things rather than just the piece I'm working on. UMass Boston to me is inclusivity and diversity on campus and off campus and is the main reason why I came here. Mya-Jai Ackles, Music Major Faculty members at UMass Boston are really awesome. They help you empower yourself, and go ahead with your dreams. What I see in my future is making a change. Make a change in Boston, in the state, in the world. Being here is a great opportunity and it's making my dreams come true. Valerie Avila, Psychology Major Fostering Community and Campus Involvement Beyond the classroom, our college fosters a sense of community and encourages active involvement in campus life. Join student organizations, participate in cultural events, and contribute to the vibrant arts and humanities scene at UMass Boston. Experience the richness of diverse perspectives and build lifelong friendships. Dean's Office Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Next Steps Admissions Financial Aid & Scholarships Majors & Programs UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms