Biology 344/345 Field Ornithology - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Nantucket Courses & Opportunities Biology 344/345 Field Ornithology Menu menu Menu People Research & Impact Courses & Opportunities Workshops K-12 Experiences Seminars Facilities Biology 344/345 Field Ornithology Thank you for your interest in University of Massachusetts Boston’s Biology 344/345: Ornithology course for 4 credits. Students must register for 344 lecture and 345 lab. The program will run on Nantucket from May 28th-June 14th, 2024. The application deadline is May 1st, 2024. This is the application form that contains information regarding requirements for acceptance into the program. It's recommended that you read it carefully and send it back to us as soon as possible since the number of students accepted into the program is limited. Your application will be reviewed as soon as we receive all of the necessary documents and information. Notification of decision will be sent to you promptly. We anticipate a very successful program and look forward to having you as a participant. In the meantime, if you have any questions, you can contact the instructor of the course, (Luis DeLeon Reyna) or Elizabeth Boyle from the School for the Environment, either will be happy to answer any questions you may have: Course Instructor: Luis DeLeon Reyna luis.deleonreyna@umb.edu General information: Elizabeth Boyle elizabeth.boyle@umb.edu Page 1 Personal Information First Name: Last Name: Phone: Email: Mailing Address Address: City: State: Home Address Address: City: State: Health Insurance PLEASE NOTE: You must show proof of Health Insurance during your stay on Nantucket Name of Health Insurance Company: Policy Number: Page 2 Emergency Contact First Name: Last Name: Relationship: Phone: Email: Page 3 Academic History Name of Institution Presently Attending: Matriculated: Yes No Major: Minor(s): Current Class Standing: First year Second year Third year Fourth year Graduate student Cumulative GPA on 4.0 Scale: Please list science courses you have taken in college: Please indicate which of the following courses you have taken or are currently taking.  Check all that apply. Biology 252/254: Genetics Biology 290: Population Biology Math 130: Precalculus None of the above Page 4 Program Preference Please indicate for which course you are applying to and housing preference. Please see course description below: BIOL 344/345 Ornithology is the study of birds. This course will explore the complex biology of birds, evolution, functional morphology, physiology, ecology and behavior.  This immersive field course is composed of activities which emphasize particular aspects of morphology, ecology and behavior, as well as taxonomy and identification alongside native Massachusetts species. The goal for this course is to build a foundation of knowledge about birds in a way that will stimulate you to keep learning about them for the rest of your life through lecture, laboratory and field time. The course will focus primarily on the behavior, ecology and evolution of birds and the development of field skills. Students will participate first-hand in scientific techniques used in the field. Additionally, you will learn how to identify local species, basic anatomy, characteristics of birds and ecological interactions. Prerequisite: BIOL 252 or 254 and BIOL 290 and MATH 130 Program fees BIOL 344/345 With housing: $  TBA (includes housing, fees and tuition for 4 credits, it includes the BIOL 345 Fee of $     ) Without housing: $ TBA   (includes fees and tuition for lecture and lab for 4 credits only, does not include housing, it includes the BIOL 345 Fee of $ TBA) Bunkhouse housing provides two bathrooms and two bedrooms of bunkbeds, shared full kitchen, dining room, and conference/lounge space. Periodic transportation is provided for shopping. Students are responsible for their own meals. Please note: these fees do not cover meals, books, insurance, or travel to and from Nantucket Island. Please indicate which course you are applying to and your housing preference. (we encourage you to take both lecture and lab for the best experience of the course) Biology 344/345 with housing Biology 344/345 without housing Gender: Female Male Non-binary Prefer not to say Page 5 Application Certification TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS Program participants are responsible for making their own travel arrangements to and from Nantucket Island. Information on ferries will be provided. TERMS AND CONDITIONS Dates: The course starts on Tuesday May 30th. Fees *Please note: the fee does not cover meals, books, insurance, or travel to and from Nantucket Island. 
Bunkhouse housing provides two bathrooms and two bedrooms of bunkbeds, shared full kitchen, dining room, and conference/lounge space. Program fees BIOL 344 With housing: $ TBA (includes housing, fees and tuition for 4 credits, it includes the BIOL 345 Fee of $900.00) Without housing: $ TBA (includes fees and tuition for lecture and lab for 4 credits only, does not include housing, it includes the BIOL 345 Fee of $ TBA) THE APPLICATION DEADLINE IS May 1st, 2024. The total program fee* covers classroom instruction and housing on Nantucket. It does not cover meals, or transportation to and from Nantucket Island. The University of Massachusetts Boston cannot assume responsibility for any sickness or accident incurred by the student during his or her stay on Nantucket Island, nor does the University provide any casualty or health insurance. Participants are required to provide proof of health insurance coverage before registering for the program. I UNDERSTAND THAT PARTICIPATION IN THIS PROGRAM IS GOVERNED BY THE ABOVE TERMS AND CONDITIONS TO WHICH I CONSENT TO BE BOUND. I understand that the course starts on Tuesday May 28th. In place of your signature, please type your full legal name If applicant is under 18, please type the parent of guardian's full legal name in place of signature Contact Information UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms