Bob.Chen - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Bob.Chen Robert Chen Department: SFE - Dean's Office Title: Professor A Location: ISC Floor 02 Phone: 617.287.7491 Send Email Website Biography Robert F. (Bob) Chen is a Professor at the School for the Environment at the University of Massachusetts Boston. He received his AB from Harvard University in Chemistry and Physics in 1986 and his PhD in Oceanography from Scripps Institution of Oceanography in 1992. Area of Expertise Coastal Carbon Cycling, Salt Marsh Systems, Coastal Resilience, Coastal Environmental Sensor Networks, Transdisciplinary Research and Education, Ocean and Environmental Education and Outreach, Blending Art and Science. Degrees PhD, Chemical Oceanography, University of California, San Diego (Scripps Institution of Oceanography) AB, Chemistry and Physics, Harvard University Professional Publications & Contributions Najjar, R.G., M. Herrmann, R. Alexander, E. W. Boyer, D. Burdige, D. Butman, W.-J. Cai, E. A. Canuel, R. F. Chen, M. A. M. Friedrichs, R. A. Feagin, P. Griffith, A. L. Hinson, J. R. Holmquist, X. Hu, W. M. Kemp, K. D. Kroeger, A. Mannino, S. L. McCallister, W. R. McGillis, M. R. Mulholland, C. Pilskaln, J. Salisbury, S. Signorini, P. St-Laurent, H. Tian, M. Tzortziou, P. Vlahos, Z. A. Wang, and R. C. Zimmerman, 2018. Carbon budget of tidal wetlands, estuaries, and shelf waters of Eastern North America. Global Biogeochemical Cycles 32, DOI Schiebel, H.N, Wang, X.-C., Gardner, G.B., Peri, F., and Chen, R.F., 2017. Seasonal export of dissolved organic matter from a New England salt marsh. Journal of Coastal Research 34(4), 939-954. Chen, R.F. and Eisenkraft, A., 2016. Chapter 9-Professional Development for Teaching Energy. In Teaching Energy Across the Sciences: K-12. National Science Teachers Association Press, 220 pp. J. Nordine, Ed. Chen, R.F., 2016. Chapter 7-Energy and Natural Resources. In Teaching Energy Across the Sciences: K-12. National Science Teachers Association Press, 220 pp. J. Nordine, Ed. Wang, X.-C., Chen, R.F., Cable, J.E., and Cherrier, J., 2014. Leaching and microbial degradation of dissolved organic matter from salt marsh plants and seagrasses. Aquatic Sciences, DOI 10.1007/s00027-014-0357-4. Chen, R.F., Eisenkraft, A., Fortus, D., Krajcik, J., Neumann, K., Nordine, J., and Scheff, A. (Eds), 2014. Teaching and learning of energy in K-12 education. Springer, New York, 379 pp Chen, R.F., 2008. Ocean education and outreach for fame and • Chen, R.F., 2008. Ocean education and outreach for fame and fortune-A case study. Current-The Journal of Marine Education, 24: 36-40. Gardner, G.B., Chen, R.F., and Berry, A., 2005. High-resolution measurements of chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM) fluorescence in the Neponset River Estuary, Boston Harbor, MA. Marine Chemistry, 96: 137-154. Aluwihare, L.I., Repeta, D.J., and Chen, R.F., 1997. A major biopolymeric component to dissolved organic carbon in seawater. Nature, 387: 166-169. Chen, R.F. and Bada, J.L., 1992. The fluorescence of dissolved organic matter in seawater. Marine Chemistry, 37: 191-221. Additional Information After an NSF Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, he has remained at UMass Boston since 1993, serving as Graduate Program Director, Director of the Center for Coastal Environmental Sensing Networks (CESN), and presently Interim Dean. His research interests include the cycling of chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM), carbon biogeochemistry in coastal systems, and the development of sensor networks in shallow water systems. He has explored dissolved organic carbon (DOC) outwelling from salt marshes, remote sensing of coastal water quality, and indicators of estuarine health. He is also dedicated to ocean and environmental science education and outreach at the local, national, and international levels and transforming K-12, undergraduate and graduate environmental and aquatic science education. He was the Principal Investigator of the Watershed-Integrated Sciences Partnership (wisp.umb.edu), COSEE OCEAN (coseeocean.net), the Boston Energy in Science Teaching (BEST) (bostonscience.net), and Coasts and Communities IGERT projects, and he has been involved in Ocean Literacy and Energy Literacy efforts. He was Chair of the COSEE Council from 2013-2014. He has published over 70 peer-reviewed articles and is an active researcher in the area of coastal observations, carbon cycling, and contaminant distribution and fate. Bob Chen CV19.pdf UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms