- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Professor Douglas Woodhams, Postdoc & Graduate Stu Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Professor Douglas Woodhams, Postdoc & Graduate Students Published in Genome Biology 02/21/2020 |
    Colleen Locke Study Shows Immune System Complexity and Climate Impact Microbiomes Assistant Professor of Biology Douglas Woodhams (far right) and postdoc Molly Bletz (center) authored a paper with students in their graduate seminars, including Amanda Tokash-Peters (far right). More than a dozen students in two of Assistant Professor of Biology Douglas Woodhams ’ graduate seminars can now add published researcher to their résumés. Woodhams and Molly Bletz, a postdoctoral research associate in the Woodhams Lab, are the co-first authors on a new paper in Genome Biology that is the result of the two seminars he taught on microbiomes, the group of microscopic organisms that live on, or inside, host animals. Most of the graduate students from the courses are listed as coauthors, including Amanda Tokash-Peters, a PhD candidate in environmental biology. “Being able to work in a supportive and collaborative environment really helped to move this work forward and guided the shape that the Genome Biology paper took,” Tokash-Peters said. “I think that hands-on applied learning like this helps familiarize grad students with the level of investment that goes into a collaboration and paper like this, as well as getting more acquainted with the full publication process with several collaborators.” For the paper, the student, faculty, and staff researchers combined data from the Earth Microbiome Project and 50 additional studies to examine global-scale patterns of bacterial diversity and function across 654 host species and more than 15,000 samples. “Using standardized analytical approaches, we found compelling evidence that internal vs. external microbiomes differ in the main drivers of diversity and microbial composition,” Woodhams said. Woodhams says microbiomes influence evolutionary, immunological, and ecological processes. How the host animal and their microbiome interact affects how the host can adapt to changes in their environment. Understanding microbiomes and how they can be altered not only helps manage amphibian diseases, Woodhams’ area of specialty, it is also relevant for understanding how to manage disease in human mucosal systems, like the gut and lungs. Woodhams says he, Bletz, and the students found that temperature and precipitation affected external microbiomes, whereas the complexity of immune systems, diet, and climate impacted internal microbiomes. “This suggests previously unrecognized top-down regulating effects,” Woodhams said. “This combined dataset represents a global baseline available for interrogation by future microbial ecology studies.” Hannah Diebboll, another student in the class, says the large number of collaborators had both its challenges and benefits. “So many publications these days come from large collaborative efforts, so getting to experience working this way in a classroom setting was quite relevant to trends we are seeing in the field,” Diebboll said. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms