Beacons Magazine Fall 2023 - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Beacons Magazine A magazine for UMass Boston alumni & friends In this edition of Beacons magazine, we share stories of alumni who explored the intellectual universe while at UMass Boston and discovered what brings them joy and passion in life. Our cover story highlights the university's New Balance Institute for Innovative Leadership in Sport , an exciting new initiative of our New Balance Sport Leadership & Administration program. New Balance has invested $15 million to endow these programs, which are positioning our Beacons for pioneering roles as sports professionals and change agents. Student interest has skyrocketed, in part because SLA and the institute marry the passion of sports with social responsibility and equity. Read All 2023 Stories The Game-Changers Through a newly expanded partnership, UMass Boston and New Balance are preparing the next generation of sports industry leaders. Where the Heart Is From curating delightful seaside lodgings to supporting community care, Anne Hajjar ’90, G’95 has an affinity for creating the feeling of home away from home. Meows the Time In his new film, Crazy Cat Lady, Garrett Clancy ’88 chronicles the tireless (and heartwarming) work of dedicated volunteers addressing the feral cat crisis. Going the Distance Founded in 2013 in memory of UMass
Boston student Krystle Campbell, the
Run for Krystle marathon team has built
a legacy of camaraderie and hope in the
face of tragedy. Read Going the Distance From the Hub to the Hill With the newly launched Barron
Congressional Internship program, Matt
Barron ’86 is opening doors of opportunity
on Capitol Hill for UMass Boston students. Read from Hub to the Hill Departments Your Take Who was your favorite UMass Boston professor and why? The Tea Residence Halls Named for Dr. J. Keith and Angela Motley. Student Q&A: Soonbee Kwon ’25 "An affordable education and access to a diverse learning
environment was what attracted me to UMass Boston." Did You Know? The Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) at UMass Boston is a membership-based community of adults aged 50 and older who enjoy learning and spending time with like-minded people. Class Notes Interdisciplinary street artist Rixy Fernandez ’19 recently unveiled
her newest art piece—a bird-themed mural entitled Fly, Like You. In Memoriam It has saddened us to learn of the passing of the following members of the UMass Boston community since our last issue. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms