Request Services - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Facilities Request Services Menu menu Menu About Contact Information Request Services Keys Maintenance Warehouse Request Services Members of the Facilities Department staff provide operations, maintenance, and repair support for the university’s 11 main campus buildings and grounds, covering more than 2 million gross square feet of space and 120 acres of grounds. Most operations, maintenance and repair work is performed based on work orders submitted by members of the university community or auto-generated by the Facilities Department Work Management System (e.g., preventive maintenance work orders). Work orders can be submitted in several ways: The primary method for submitting a work order is to use the online application Facilities iService (FIS) . This method will allow you to create, submit, and track the status of your service request. The work order system enables the customers to easily enter routine maintenance service requests electronically; Send an email to facilities@umb.edu ; Contact the Facilities Response Center directly by calling 617.287.5450 . This number is answered by Service Response staff Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Utility plant operators can assist on all off-hour issues. Call 617.287.5450. When submitting a work order, it is important that you provide the following information: first and last name of the requestor; telephone number and email address for the requestor; the exact location of the problem being reported and/or work is to be performed; and a full description of the work requested. You can track information on your work order via the Facilities Department online application Facilities iService (FiS). If you have any questions, please contact the Facilities Service Response Center at 617.287.5450. The Facilities Department Service Response Desk is located in the Service and Supply Building, Upper Level, Room 001. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms