Center for Statistical Computing - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Center for Statistical Computing Home Admissions Graduate Students Graduate Students & Assistantships Center for Statistical Computing Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Apply as a Graduate Student Graduate Students & Assistantships FAQs Graduate Student Resources Graduate Teaching Program Center for Statistical Computing Statistical Workshops Statistician Sage Campus Courses Faculty Resources International Students Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented Center for Statistical Computing The Center for Statistical Computing (CSC) is a professional service and research unit supported by the Office of Graduate Studies at UMass Boston. CSC offers comprehensive support for research, training, and consulting in data science to faculty, staff, and graduate students through one-on-one consultations and training workshops. Types of Statistical Consulting Services: CSC offers guidance on statistical challenges throughout the research process, including study preparation, data analysis, and result interpretation. It also assists in the preparation of data analysis sections for inclusion in grant preparation, such as writing analysis sections of grants, sample size planning, development of research-specific aims and hypotheses, and designing statistical approaches to research aims. It also assists with manuscript revisions related to statistical issues. Assistance is available for statistical issues arising at any stage of the research process. Services offered by CSC include: Data management Sample size estimation and power calculation Data analysis and modeling Design of experiments Interpretation of results Preparation of reports Collaboration with faculty for grant and contract proposals, leading to subsequent statistical analysis and publications Specialized statistical expertise in areas including: Applied Probability Statistical Learning Simultaneous Inference and Monte Carlo Methodology Scan and Spatial Statistics (Clustering Detection and Spatial Modeling) Linear and Nonlinear Modeling Hierarchical Linear Models Survival Data Analysis Bayesian Statistics Missing Data Analysis Time Series Analysis Event-Study Regressions Latent Variable Modeling (Confirmatory Factor Analysis, Structural Equation Modeling, Latent Class Modeling, etc.) Statistical Software: CSC provides support for using a range of statistical software, including SPSS, AMOS, SAS, Stata, Matlab, R, Python, and WinBUGs. We also offer programming support and training workshops. Please click here for more details about licensed software. Choosing the Right Software: Many people ask us which statistical software package is the best, but there is no one-size-fits-all answer. The choice depends on the analyses you want to perform, as well as your statistical and programming background. Feel free to contact our staff to discuss the best software for your specific situation. Statistical Workshops CSC offers a variety of workshops, including those on statistical software (SPSS, SAS, Stata, Excel, R, and Python), and in applied statistics. These workshops are offered free of charge to members of the UMass Boston community, but due to limited space, we do ask that you register in advance. For more details about the workshops , please refer to our workshop descriptions and schedules: Basic Statistical Workshop Descriptions and Schedule (Fall 2024) Applied Statistical Workshop Descriptions and Schedule (Fall 2024) Workshops in Using Statistical Software: SPSS I and SPSS II SAS I and SAS II Stata I and Stata II Statistical Analysis Using Excel An Introduction to R for Statistical Analysis Introduction to Python in Statistics with SAGE Campus Introduction to the SAGE Campus Introduction to RStudio with SAGE Campus Statistics using ChatGPT Workshops in Applied Statistics: Structural Equation Modeling (AMOS & R) I & II Introduction to HLM (Mixed Models) using SPSS Sample Size Estimation and Power Calculation using SAS Missing Data Analysis using SAS & Stata Introduction to Survival Data Analysis (Event History Analysis) using SPSS Spatial Regression (R) Introduction to Time Series Analysis (R) Event-Study Regression using R Propensity Score Analyses Introduction to Statistical Learning (R) Introduction to Practical Bayesian Modeling using WinBUGS COVID-19 Data Analysis Using R How to Register Seats and handouts are limited. Please register in advance. Find the detailed workshop schedule above. Click the 'In-Person Register' or 'On-Zoom Register' link under ‘Registration’. Fill up all information requests and submit your registration. Join the workshops via Zoom link in the confirmation email or attend in-person session for in-person workshops. In person Statistical workshops will be held in the Green Lab or Gold Lab on the upper level (UL) of Healey Library. How to Obtain Statistical Consulting Services To schedule an appointment for statistical consulting services, please check our office hour below and make an appointment prior to your visit. If you want to make an appointment outside our office hour, or if you have any other issues, please contact us at csc@live.umb.edu . Register via our online booking or scan the QR Code below for your registration Office Hours: Online In-Person Monday 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. 12:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Tuesday 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Wednesday / 11:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Thursday 9:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. 12:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. / Our Staff Senior Statistician Jie Chen, Ph.D. (jie.chen@umb.edu) Graduate Assistants Zihan Li (zihan.li001@umb.edu) Inal Mashukov ( inal.mashukov001@umb.edu ) Center for Statistical Computing Jie Chen , Director Email: jie.chen@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms