Anne.Douglass - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Anne.Douglass Anne Douglass Department: Curriculum & Instruction Title: Professor Professor of Early Childhood Education, Curriculum and Instruction Department, CEHD, Executive Director, Early Education Leaders Institute at UMass Boston Location: Bayside Floor 04 Phone: 617.287.4622 Send Email Website Biography Anne Douglass, PhD, is professor of early childhood education; director of the graduate certificate program in early education research, policy, and practice; and founding executive director of Early Education Leaders Institute (formerly the Institute for Early Education Leadership and Innovation) at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Additional Information The Institute cultivates the entrepreneurial leadership of early educators and child care business owners, and produces cutting-edge research on leadership, innovation, and change in early education. The Institute is one of five core partners leading the National ECE Workforce Center, a $30 million research and technical assistance center funded by the federal Administration for Children and Families. Dr. Douglass has been designing and leading innovative academic and leadership development programs for early educators at UMass Boston since 2009. She launched an innovative BA degree program designed for the early care and education workforce and led it for a decade. She grew the BA program from an annual enrollment of 15 students to over 300 students, and the program graduates more racially and linguistically diverse BA-degreed early educators each year than any other higher education institution in Massachusetts. She also led the development of the post master’s certificate and Ph.D. programs in early care and education that are preparing the next generation of leaders and scholars. Dr. Douglass is a leading national expert on early education leadership, quality improvement, and equity. She designs, implements, and studies practices, policies, and systems that increase the capacity of the racially and linguistically diverse early care and education workforce to lead change, improvement, and innovation. Her research is conducted in partnership with professional, community, government, and philanthropic entities that share a vision to dramatically transform professional development and quality improvement in ECE. As Principal or Co-Principal Investigator, she has been awarded over $30 million in external funds for research and training from foundation and public partners. She is the author of the 2017 book Leading for Change in Early Care and Education: Cultivating Leadership from Within, and she has been published in a wide range of academic journals, books, and news media, and presents nationally and internationally to academic, policy, and professional audiences. All of Dr. Douglass’s academic research, writing, speaking, and teaching is informed by a prior twenty-year career in urban ECE as a teacher, administrator, family child care owner and educator, and quality improvement coach and mentor to programs serving children and families in Boston’s most under-resourced neighborhoods. There, she saw firsthand that quality improvement in ECE cannot be imposed from the outside but must be built, designed, and nurtured by those closest to the work, all in the context of supportive systems and policies. Dr. Douglass is a Pahara-Aspen Institute Leadership Fellow. She earned a PhD in social policy at the Heller School at Brandeis University, a master’s degree at Harvard Graduate School of Education, and a bachelor’s degree in political science from Wellesley College. Biography Anne Douglass, PhD, is professor of early childhood education; director of the graduate certificate program in early education research, policy, and practice; and founding executive director of Early Education Leaders Institute (formerly the Institute for Early Education Leadership and Innovation) at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Additional Information The Institute cultivates the entrepreneurial leadership of early educators and child care business owners, and produces cutting-edge research on leadership, innovation, and change in early education. The Institute is one of five core partners leading the National ECE Workforce Center, a $30 million research and technical assistance center funded by the federal Administration for Children and Families. Dr. Douglass has been designing and leading innovative academic and leadership development programs for early educators at UMass Boston since 2009. She launched an innovative BA degree program designed for the early care and education workforce and led it for a decade. She grew the BA program from an annual enrollment of 15 students to over 300 students, and the program graduates more racially and linguistically diverse BA-degreed early educators each year than any other higher education institution in Massachusetts. She also led the development of the post master’s certificate and Ph.D. programs in early care and education that are preparing the next generation of leaders and scholars. Dr. Douglass is a leading national expert on early education leadership, quality improvement, and equity. She designs, implements, and studies practices, policies, and systems that increase the capacity of the racially and linguistically diverse early care and education workforce to lead change, improvement, and innovation. Her research is conducted in partnership with professional, community, government, and philanthropic entities that share a vision to dramatically transform professional development and quality improvement in ECE. As Principal or Co-Principal Investigator, she has been awarded over $30 million in external funds for research and training from foundation and public partners. She is the author of the 2017 book Leading for Change in Early Care and Education: Cultivating Leadership from Within, and she has been published in a wide range of academic journals, books, and news media, and presents nationally and internationally to academic, policy, and professional audiences. All of Dr. Douglass’s academic research, writing, speaking, and teaching is informed by a prior twenty-year career in urban ECE as a teacher, administrator, family child care owner and educator, and quality improvement coach and mentor to programs serving children and families in Boston’s most under-resourced neighborhoods. There, she saw firsthand that quality improvement in ECE cannot be imposed from the outside but must be built, designed, and nurtured by those closest to the work, all in the context of supportive systems and policies. Dr. Douglass is a Pahara-Aspen Institute Leadership Fellow. She earned a PhD in social policy at the Heller School at Brandeis University, a master’s degree at Harvard Graduate School of Education, and a bachelor’s degree in political science from Wellesley College. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms