Jeffrey.Pugh - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Jeffrey.Pugh Jeffrey Pugh Department: Confl Res, Hum Sec & Globl Gov Title: Associate Professor Location: Wheatley Hall Floor 04

			 0128A Phone: 617.287.7489 Send Email Website Biography Jeffrey Pugh is an associate professor of conflict resolution at the University of Massachusetts Boston and the executive director of the Center for Mediation, Peace, and Resolution of Conflict (CEMPROC), an NGO in Ecuador, as well as the co-PI of the Immigrant Visibility & Political Activism Research Collaborative . He received his PhD in political science from the Johns Hopkins University. Area of Expertise Peace and Conflict Studies , International Studies , Latin American Politics, Institutions (Political Science) , Refugee Studies, Migration Studies , Social Movements Degrees Ph.D in political science, Johns Hopkins University MA in political science, Johns Hopkins University BA in political science, University of Georgia BA in speech communication, University of Georgia Professional Publications & Contributions Book The Invisibility Bargain: Governance Networks and Migrant Human Security , Oxford University Press (2021). Winner of the Expert Witness Research award presented by the Latin American Studies Association expert witness section for books on refugees, migration, and human rights (2023) Winner of the Arthur P. Whitaker Prize for Best Book in the past two years, presented by the Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies (MACLAS), 2021 Honorable Mention, American Political Science Association (APSA) Best Book Award presented by the Migration and Citizenship section , 2022 Honorable Mention, Alfred B. Thomas Award for Best Book, presented by the Southeast Council of Latin American Studies (SECOLAS), 2022 Reviews: Choice, International Migration Review , Ethnic & Racial Studies , Australian Institute of International Affairs Australian Outlook Featured in: Louisville Courier-Journal, New Books Network: Human Rights podcast, Beyond Your Newsfeed podcast, All Aces podcast Peer reviewed articles " Seis poblaciones migrantes en Quito: actitudes, integración y participación política ", with Luis F Jiménez, Cuadernos del CENDES 39, 111 (2022): 1-27. " Social Norms and Interventions on Peer Violence: A Systematic Review of the Empirical Literature ," with María Cecilia Dedios Sanguineti, Valentina Yepes Fiallo, María José Valencia Garzón, Andrea Noy Robayo & Andrés Ignacio Vecino Ortiz, Adolescent Research Review (2022). “A Catalyst for Action: Training and Education as Networking Platforms for Peace Projects,” Journal of Peacebuilding and Development . 15, no. 1. (2019) "Mapping the field of international peace education programs and exploring their networked impact on peacebuilding," with Karen Ross. Conflict Resolution Quarterly 37, no 1 (2019): 49-66 "Eroding the Barrier between Peace and Justice: Transitional Justice Mechanisms and Sustainable Peace," International Journal of Peace Studies 24, no. 1 (2019): 1-23. “Negotiating Identity and Belonging through the Invisibility Bargain: Colombian Forced Migrants in Ecuador,” International Migration Review 52, no. 4 (2018): 978-1010. Winner of the 2019 American Political Science Association (APSA) Best Article Award , presented by the Migration & Citizenship section Winner of the 2019 Joseph T. Criscenti Best Article Prize presented by the New England Council of Latin American Studies (NECLAS) “Weaving transnational activist networks: Balancing transnational and bottom-up capacity-building strategies for nonviolent action in Latin America,” Middle Atlantic Review of Latin American Studies 2, no. 1 (2018): 130-144. “Tejiendo redes de activismo transnacional: el balance entre estrategias internacionales y locales en la construcción de capacidades para la acción no violenta en América Latina,” Middle Atlantic Review of Latin American Studies 2, no. 1 (2018): 145-160. "Universal Citizenship through the Discourse and Policy of Rafael Correa," Latin American Politics and Society 59, no. 3 (Fall 2017): 98-121. Winner of the 2018 Harold Eugene Davis Prize for Best Article, presented by the Middle Atlantic Council of Latin American Studies (MACLAS) "Adapting Community Mediation for Colombian Forced Migrants in Ecuador," with David Sulewski and Julie Moreno. Conflict Resolution Quarterly 34, no. 4 (Summer 2017): 409-430. "Peacebuilding among Transnational Youth in Migrant-Receiving Border Regions of Ecuador," Journal of Peacebuilding and Development 11, no. 3 (2016): 83-97 “The Short-Term ‘Bridge Model’ Study Abroad Program: Peacebuilding in Latin America,” PS: Political Science & Politics 46, no. 4 (October 2013): 791-796. Whose Brother’s Keeper? International Trusteeship and the Search for Peace in the Palestinian Territories,” International Studies Perspectives 13, no. 4 (November 2012): 321-343. “The Structure of Negotiation: Lessons from El Salvador for Contemporary Conflict Resolution.” Negotiation Journal 25, no. 1 (January 2009): 83-105. “Challenges and Opportunities of Human Conflict and Environmental Transformation” Pirineos 163 (2008): 63-75 “Vectors of Contestation: Social Movements and Party Systems in Ecuador and Colombia.” Latin American Essays 21 (Summer 2008): 46-65 Winner of the 2008 James Street Prize for Best Article published in Latin American Essays “Selling the Public on Sustainable Watershed Conservation.” Bulletin of Latin American Research 23, no. 3 (July 2004): 303-318 (with Fausto Sarmiento). Book chapters “ From education to peacebuilding: Exploring the role of networks in peacebuilding ,” with Allyson Bachta and Karen Ross. Chapter 20 in Are we making a difference?: Global and local efforts to assess peacebuilding effectiveness (Rowman & Littlefield, 2023). " Contradictions and Shifts in Discourse and Application of the Refugee System in a Mixed-Migration Context: The Ecuadorian Case ", with Jennifer Moya and Consuelo Sánchez Bautista. In: Herrera, G., Gómez, C. (eds) Migration in South America . IMISCOE Research Series. Springer (2022). 121-143. "The Role of International Institutions in National and Local Peace Processes: The Case of the UN and ICC in Colombia," with Adriana Rincón and Consuelo Sánchez. In Aigul Kulnazarova and Christian Ydesen, eds. Handbook of Global Approaches to Peace and International Institutions. Palgrave Macmillan (2019). 561-584 "Community Peacebuilding Initiatives, Faith-Based." In The International Encyclopedia of Peace, edited by Nigel Young . New York: Oxford University Press, (2010): 380-383 Other publications "¿ Cómo forjar relaciones de alto impacto en programas de formación noviolenta en América Latina? " En Movimiento (20 enero, 2023). " Migration and Invisibility in the Americas: The Importance of Non-State Actors Brokering Protection for People on the Move ," Middle Atlantic Review of Latin American Studies 6, no. 1 (2022): 1-14. https://doi.org/10.23870/marlas.403 “Dignity and Migration at the U.S. Border,” The Peace Chronicle (Winter 2020). “Welcome Wears Thin for Colombians in Ecuador as Venezuelans Become More Visible,” Migration Information Source , with Luis Jimenez and Bettina Latuff (January 9, 2020). “La Bienvenida Se Agota para Colombianos en Ecuador Mientras Venezolanos Se Hacen Más Visibles,” Migration Information Source , with Luis Jimenez and Bettina Latuff (January 9, 2020). “La restricción permanente al porte de armas en Colombia: un análisis normativo y desde la evidencia de una política pública efectiva para reducir la violencia por armas de fuego en el país.” with María José Castro, Nicolás Forero Villarreal, María Cecilia Dedios, Lindsey Breier, Andrea Noy Robayo, Sophia Alison Zweig, María José Valencia, Andrés I. Vecino-Ortiz. Notas de Política (November 2019). No. 36. Universidad de los Andes. "Foreign Allies Should Take Their Cues from Venezuelan Activists’ Push for Democracy," The GlobePost (February 7, 2019). “Contention and Nonviolent Action in Latin America: Introduction to the Special Issue,” (with Patricia Rodriguez). Middle Atlantic Review of Latin American Studies 2, no. 1 (2018): 1-3 [Spanish version of the article above:] “Contención y acción no violenta en América Latina: introducción al número especial,” (with Patricia Rodríguez). Middle Atlantic Review of Latin American Studies 2, no. 1 (2018): 4-7. "The 'Invisibility Bargain' Constrains Migrants' Identities and Rights," AULA Blog (October 25, 2017) "What Displaced Colombians Living Abroad Think about the Peace Efforts," The Conversation (October 5, 2016) "Bridges, Not Walls, Foster Peace and Security as Refugees Arrive," CounterPunch (June 16, 2016) "A Platform for Action: Creating Peacebuilding Networks for Border Regions," Peacebuilding Post, Alliance for Peacebuilding. (Spring 2016) "Trial by Fire for Ecuador's President Correa," TruthOut (August 26, 2015) “Redes de Migrantes y Refugiados en Ecuador: Un Estudio de Quito, Lago Agrio, Esmeraldas, e Ibarra,” CEMPROC Working Paper Series in Peace, Conflict, and Development , June 2015. "Governance Networks in Ecuador's Border Region," Forced Migration Review 43, May 2013 (with Lana Balyk), 47-49. “Democratic Peace Theory: A Review and Evaluation.” CEMPROC Working Paper Series in Peace, Conflict, and Development (April, 2005) Additional Information Jeffrey Pugh’s research focuses on peacebuilding, migration, and non-state actors in the Global South. He has published scholarly articles, book chapters, and policy reports, and his book, The Invisibility Bargain: Governance Networks and Migrant Human Security (Oxford University Press, 2021), examines the integration, political participation, and access to human security of Colombian migrants in Ecuador. His current research agenda through IVPARC applies the human security framework to immigrant activism in the United States. His research has received more than 10 awards, from the American Political Science Association, the International Studies Association, and others, and he was a 2014-15 Fulbright Scholar affiliated with FLACSO Ecuador. Pugh teaches graduate courses on Negotiation, Immigration & Conflict, Human Security, Theories of Peace and Conflict, and others. He is a co-founder of the Regional Institute on Nonviolent Action in the Americas, he occasionally serves as an expert witness for asylum cases of Ecuadorians in the United States, and he is a past president of the Middle Atlantic Council on Latin American Studies (MACLAS). Pugh is an associate professor of conflict resolution at the University of Massachusetts Boston and the executive director of the Center for Mediation, Peace, and Resolution of Conflict (CEMPROC), an NGO in Ecuador, as well as the co-PI of the Immigrant Visibility & Political Activism Research Collaborative (www.ivparc.com). He received his PhD in political science from the Johns Hopkins University. Pugh’s research focuses on peacebuilding, migration, and non-state actors in the Global South. He has published scholarly articles, book chapters, and policy reports, and his book, The Invisibility Bargain: Governance Networks and Migrant Human Security (Oxford University Press, 2021), examines the integration, political participation, and access to human security of Colombian migrants in Ecuador. His current research agenda through IVPARC applies the human security framework to immigrant activism in the United States. His research has received more than 10 awards, from the American Political Science Association, the International Studies Association, the Latin American Studies Association, and others, and he was a 2014-15 Fulbright Scholar affiliated with FLACSO Ecuador. Pugh teaches graduate courses on Negotiation, Immigration & Conflict, Human Security, Theories of Peace and Conflict, Nonviolent Action, International Conflict Resolution, and others. He is a co-founder of the Regional Institute on Nonviolent Action in the Americas , and he occasionally serves as an expert witness for asylum cases of Ecuadorians in the United States. He is a past president of the Middle Atlantic Council on Latin American Studies (MACLAS) and the current editor-in-chief of the Middle Atlantic Review of Latin American Studies (MARLAS). UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms