Core Classes - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Uteach About Core Classes Menu menu Menu About Core Classes Current Students Introductory Classes Alumni Become A Mentor Contact Faculty Staff Core Classes The core classes of UTeach Boston consist of six education classes and a semester of student teaching. The classes, listed in the second table below, cover topics such as writing inquiry-based lessons, developing project-based lessons, exploring how people learn, classroom interactions, and in-depth studying of math or science content that is part of middle and high school curriculum. UTeach Boston aims to prepare prospective teachers for their career by ensuring that they have a deep understanding of how people learn, and are proficient and confident in pedagogy as well as in the content that they will be guiding their future students to learn. More goals of UTeach Boston can be found here . The program concludes with student teaching for a semester in a grade level of the student's choice.  The UTeach program in its in entirety, including the first two (required) introductory classes, consists of 32 credits. 7th Graders write on the board the ways they solved a math problem presented by Step 2 student teachers.  The question was: How many squares are in the border of a 6 by 6 grid? The first two introductory classes , listed in the first table below, are required classes in the UTeach program, but only give a brief overview of inquiry-based STEM teaching methods and learning.  They are designed for students of any major to explore teaching as a career.  From the very first class, called Step 1, students apply what they learn in class to teach lessons in classrooms all throughout the Boston Public School district.  To read a description of a class, click on the class's WISER code in the table. Introductory Classes (1 credit each) INTR-D 170 Step 1: Inquiry Approaches to Teaching* INTR-D 175 Step 2: Inquiry-Based Lesson Design* After these classes, students can decide whether or not to continue in the UTeach program and complete the core education classes.  The core classes are listed in the table below. Knowing and Learning (EDC U 270) fulfills a Social/Behavioral Science general education distribution, and Perspectives (EDC U 370) fulfills a Humanities general education distribution.  To read a description of a class, click on the class's WISER code in the table. Core Classes (3 credits each) EDC U 270 Knowing and Learning Math and Science (SB) EDC U 275 Classroom Interactions* EDC U 370 Perspectives on Science and Math (HU) EDC U 375 Functions and Modeling (Math majors only) ** EDC U 470 Research Methods (Science majors only) EDC U 475 Project-Based Instruction* EDC U 451 Rethinking Equity and Teaching for English Language Learners* EDC U 499 Student Teaching (Practicum) * (12 credits) *This class has a field component. **For math majors who complete the UTeach Program, this counts as a 300-level math elective. We will be posting four-year advising plans for STEM majors in UTeach soon. UTeach Boston Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms