Writing Proficiency - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Undergraduate Studies Writing Proficiency Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Academic Policies For Faculty General Education Requirements JFK & Ryan Awards Writing Proficiency Electronic Writing Assessment Portfolio (EWRAP) WPE Portfolio Registration WPE Portfolio Requirements WPE Resources for Students WPE Testing Period Schedule WPE Holds Advice for Students (EWRAP/WPE Portfolio) Waivers, Appeals and Forms Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Writing Proficiency Announcements WPE hold? The quickest way to get your hold removed is to contact us via email at writing.proficiency@umb.edu. Registration for the October WPE will be open from Monday, September 16, through Tuesday, October 15. You may not register before or after these dates. Schedule a quick question/hold release appointment . What is the Writing Proficiency Requirement? Students must demonstrate the ability to evaluate different points of view, read critically, and write analytically. It is one of our general education requirements for undergraduates. Students are required to demonstrate writing proficiency before they complete 75 credits. It is a graduation requirement. How is this requirement fulfilled? Students have three options for fulfilling this requirement. This document, " Three Ways to fulfill the writing proficiency requirement ," compares the three options EWRAP (Electronic Writing Assessment Portfolio) consists of a collection of course papers. This option is only available to students enrolled in an intermediate seminar in the current semester. EWRAP portfolios are due at the end of the semester, in December or in May. Students enrolled in intermediate seminars will receive detailed information by email at mid-semester. Students in CRW 282 can participate in EWRAP. WPE Portfolio consists of a collection of course papers and a new (challenge) essay. WPE portfolios can be submitted up to three times a year. See the schedule page for a detailed review of the next two upcoming WPE Portfolio cycles. Students are notified by email at the start of every WPE Portfolio cycle. WPE Timed Exam consists of an essay written in person using readings that the student has prepared in advance. No timed exams are currently scheduled. Students who think they must do a timed exam should send an email message to writing.proficiency@umb.edu . What is the purpose of the Writing Proficiency Requirement? You’ll need critical reading, reasoning, and writing skills to be successful in every class you take at UMass Boston. The purpose of the Writing Proficiency Requirement is to help you be better prepared for academic work in advanced courses where you will be expected to apply these essential communication skills. When do I complete the Writing Proficiency Requirement? You must complete the requirement by your junior year when you have between 60 and 75 credits. Most students fulfill the requirement by participating in EWRAP in the semester they take an Intermediate Seminar. Students who have taken an intermediate seminar or who are not required to take an intermediate seminar must submit a WPE portfolio before they complete 75 credits. What if I am a transfer student? Most transfer students are required to take an intermediate seminar and can complete an EWRAP portfolio. If you transfer or earn 75 or more credits, you should fulfill the writing proficiency requirement at the end of that semester (EWRAP) or in the month after the end of that semester (WPE). Transfer students in their first semester at the university are not expected to attempt the mid-semester WPE. New transfer students qualify for modified submission requirements. What is the significance of 75 credits? Your ability to reflect upon a problem, to organize your thinking and argue your point of view persuasively are skills required in upper level courses. Therefore, we require that you are proficient at writing by your junior year, so that you will be successful in your 300 and 400 level courses. What if I have a WPE hold on my Wiser? Students who haven't fulfilled the writing proficiency requirement by the semester in which they will reach 75 credits will receive a WPE hold on their Wiser account. See WPE Holds to learn how to get the hold released. Accommodations for students with disabilities The University of Massachusetts Boston is committed to providing reasonable academic accommodations for all students with disabilities. Students with disabilities who need accommodations on the Writing Proficiency Requirement (Timed-Essay Exam or Portfolio) must contact the Ross Center by writing to ross.center@umb.edu or by calling 617.287.7430 to request necessary accommodations. Students must be registered with the Ross Center for Disability Services, UL 211, before requesting accommodations for the Writing Proficiency Requirement. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms