Scholarship And Internship Opportunities - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home All of Us Native American & Indigenous Scholarship And Internship Opportunities Menu menu Menu AAPI Black Men Black Women Inclusive Identity Latinidad Native American & Indigenous Beyond The University Events & News Scholarship And Internship Opportunities University Resources Pride Racial Climate Survey Scholarship and Internship Opportunities All Massachusetts Public Colleges and Universities accept the Native American Tuition Credit. Please look below for additional identity-based scholarship and internship opportunities. Get More Information Scholarships American Indian College Fund Coquille Indian Tribe Native American Higher Education Program and Information Daughters of American Revolution FastWeb - FastWeb is a National Scholarship Database designed to simplify the scholarship search by helping students find millions of scholarships, grants, internships, and financial aid opportunities. Please create a free account and discover new opportunities. Full Circle and Tribal College Scholarships - The American Indian College Fund provides scholarships to American Indian and Alaska Native college students seeking undergraduate and graduate degrees at tribal colleges, nonprofit, and accredited schools. Any Native American U.S. citizen who is a member or descendant of a state or federally recognized tribe with at least a 2.0-grade point average enrolled as a full-time student can apply for a scholarship. Posse Foundation Scholarships for Native American and Alaskan Native Students (via EduMed) - This guide provides a nationwide list of scholarships (including who's eligible and application deadlines), tips on applying, and resources to support Indigenous and Alaskan Native students to thrive at college, in graduate school, and beyond. Scholarships for Native Youth in Massachusetts (via the Executive Office of Housing and Economic Development) - Scroll down to "Tuition and Scholarship Information" Scholarship Resource Guide for American Indian/Alaska Native Students - In this resource guide, some scholarships are specific to a particular tribe, some specific to a geographical area, and some specific to a field of study. Selected Tribe - specific scholarships and financial aid The Association on American Indian Affairs - The Association provides scholarships to undergraduate and graduate Native American students who are citizens/members of their Tribal Nation–whether or not the federal government recognizes their Nation. The Association's Scholarships are provided to students twice annually until they graduate if they maintain a 2.5 GPA and attend full-time. Udall Foundation Internships The National Museum of the American Indian (NMAI) Internship Program provides educational opportunities for students interested in the museum profession and related fields. Interns complete projects using the resources of the NMAI and other Smithsonian offices. Internships allow students to learn about the museum’s collections, exhibitions, programs, and methodologies and meet professionals in the museum field. A review committee selects interns made up of five NMAI staff. Approximately twenty-five percent of applicants are accepted for internships during any one year. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms