Shangyang.Fang - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Shangyang.Fang Shangyang Fang Department: English Title: Assoc Lecturer A Assistant Professor Send Email Area of Expertise Creative Writing; Contemporary Poetry; Translation Area of Expertise Creative Writing; Contemporary Poetry; Translation Degrees Master of Fine Arts, Michener Center for Writers, UT Austin Bachelor of Science, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Degrees Master of Fine Arts, Michener Center for Writers, UT Austin Bachelor of Science, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Additional Information Shangyang Fang grew up in Chengdu, China, and writes in both English and Chinese. He is a recipient of the Gregory O’Donoghue International Poetry Award, Pushcart Prize, Joy Harjo Poetry Award, James A. Michener Fellowship, and the Wallace Stegner Fellowship from Stanford University. His works have appeared in The Nation, Ploughshares, The Yale Review, The Best American Poetry, Best of the Net, The Pushcart Prize Anthology, and The Forward Book of Poetry Anthology (UK). He is the author of the poetry collection Burying the Mountain (Copper Canyon Press, 2021) and a book of translation, Study of Sorrow: An Anthology of Song Dynasty Poetry (Copper Canyon Press, 2025). Additional Information Shangyang Fang grew up in Chengdu, China, and writes in both English and Chinese. He is a recipient of the Gregory O’Donoghue International Poetry Award, Pushcart Prize, Joy Harjo Poetry Award, James A. Michener Fellowship, and the Wallace Stegner Fellowship from Stanford University. His works have appeared in The Nation, Ploughshares, The Yale Review, The Best American Poetry, Best of the Net, The Pushcart Prize Anthology, and The Forward Book of Poetry Anthology (UK). He is the author of the poetry collection Burying the Mountain (Copper Canyon Press, 2021) and a book of translation, Study of Sorrow: An Anthology of Song Dynasty Poetry (Copper Canyon Press, 2025). Area of Expertise Creative Writing; Contemporary Poetry; Translation Area of Expertise Creative Writing; Contemporary Poetry; Translation Degrees Master of Fine Arts, Michener Center for Writers, UT Austin Bachelor of Science, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Degrees Master of Fine Arts, Michener Center for Writers, UT Austin Bachelor of Science, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Additional Information Shangyang Fang grew up in Chengdu, China, and writes in both English and Chinese. He is a recipient of the Gregory O’Donoghue International Poetry Award, Pushcart Prize, Joy Harjo Poetry Award, James A. Michener Fellowship, and the Wallace Stegner Fellowship from Stanford University. His works have appeared in The Nation, Ploughshares, The Yale Review, The Best American Poetry, Best of the Net, The Pushcart Prize Anthology, and The Forward Book of Poetry Anthology (UK). He is the author of the poetry collection Burying the Mountain (Copper Canyon Press, 2021) and a book of translation, Study of Sorrow: An Anthology of Song Dynasty Poetry (Copper Canyon Press, 2025). Additional Information Shangyang Fang grew up in Chengdu, China, and writes in both English and Chinese. He is a recipient of the Gregory O’Donoghue International Poetry Award, Pushcart Prize, Joy Harjo Poetry Award, James A. Michener Fellowship, and the Wallace Stegner Fellowship from Stanford University. His works have appeared in The Nation, Ploughshares, The Yale Review, The Best American Poetry, Best of the Net, The Pushcart Prize Anthology, and The Forward Book of Poetry Anthology (UK). He is the author of the poetry collection Burying the Mountain (Copper Canyon Press, 2021) and a book of translation, Study of Sorrow: An Anthology of Song Dynasty Poetry (Copper Canyon Press, 2025). UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms