My Health Beacon Portal - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Health Services My Health Beacon Portal Menu menu Menu About Emergencies Health Happenings Counseling Center General Medicine Wellness Patient Resources Immunizations & Health Requirements Forms Billing My Health Beacon Portal General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu My Health Beacon Portal Schedule a COVID/Flu Shot with Osco Pharmacy for 9/23 & 9/30 Here! Schedule a Vision Exam with 20/20 Onsite for 9/26 Here! The My Health Beacon Portal is a secure system for scheduling and canceling appointments, sending and receiving secure messages from healthcare providers, uploading immunization records, and viewing the stauts of medical requirements. How to Access Access My Health Beacon Portal Students can log into the My Health Beacon Portal My Health Beacon Portal here . If you are having trouble with your username or password, contact the IT Service Desk at UHSITSupport@umb.edu. Note: University Health Services prioritizes student privacy and confidentiality. Because your health services portal login information is the same as your email account login, sharing this information grants access to your private health information. Log In Assistance Review Portal Information : The homepage provides important details about the portal's features and uses. Update Your Profile : Select the Profile tab to ensure your information is correct and up-to-date. You can edit your mobile phone number and choose your mobile phone carrier, allowing UHS to send you text reminders of appointments and messages. Explore Portal Features : Learn how to schedule or cancel appointments, send messages to healthcare providers, and enter, view, and print your immunization information. You can also complete any necessary forms. Learn how to schedule an appointment. On the homepage, click on the Appointments tab in the lefthand column and click on the blue "Schedule an Appointment" button. Secure Messaging Secure messaging is a safe, confidential way to communicate with medical and billing staff at University Health Services. Do not use secure messaging for life-threatening emergencies - dial 911. Receive Messages : Click on the "Messages" in the left-hand navigation bar to view all received messages. Send a Message: Select "New Message" from the top of the messages screen. Choose the relevant option for your message. IT SUpport If you experience technical issues with the My Health Beacon Portal, contact our support team at uhsitsupport@umb.edu . Information Technology Services: Support is available for WISER accounts and Microsoft Authenticator. Multi-Factor Authentication Support: Available for added security during login. General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms