Public Policy - MPP - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Public Policy MPP Home Academics Majors & Programs Public Policy - MPP Request Info Loading... Become an expert in policy design, analysis, and impactful interventions. UMass Boston’s Master of Public Policy (MPP) program is an advanced two-year curriculum designed to prepare the next generation of analysts and leaders in shaping policy across the public, nonprofit, and private sectors. Whether you have recently graduated or boast years of work experience, our program is crafted to enhance your skills in policy design, analysis, and the execution of impactful interventions. The MPP program is tailored to meet the evolving demands of both emerging and experienced professionals, ensuring students will have expertise in two of these concentrations: Data Analytics and Policy Simulation, Social Policy and Racial Equity, and Nonprofit Organization Policy and Management. Recognizing the paramount importance of data analytics, data science, and policy simulation in today’s policy landscape, the MPP curriculum emphasizes the integration of public policy with cutting-edge information systems and technology. You will gain a deep understanding of various application areas, including service delivery, nonprofit management, urban planning, community development, conflict resolution, and applied social sciences. Furthermore, our program addresses the critical need for policy analysts proficient in conducting ‘equity audits’ and analyzing programs through equity and racial justice lenses underpinned by advanced quantitative analytic methods. Career Possibilities Policy analyst Nonprofit program director/manager Data analyst or data scientist Social policy researcher Economic development specialist Environmental policy advisor Health care policy analyst Education policy specialist Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Statement of Purpose Write a 500-word essay on your reasons for considering the UMass Boston MPP program in relation to your academic background, professional work experience, and career goals, and a 1,000-word essay describing your personal qualities and development and how they have influenced your career choice. Résumé or CV Add a current résumé or CV noting your previous educational (a bachelor's degree is required) and working experience. Official Transcripts Submit official copies of all undergraduate and graduate transcripts from all colleges attended. Writing Sample Submit a writing sample consisting of 3-5 pages. It might be from your previous academic or professional work. GRE Scores The Graduate Record Exam (GRE) is not required for the MPP program. If you wish to submit GRE scores that are less than five years old, please use the UMass Boston GRE code: 3924. Letters of Recommendation Please include two letters of recommendation: one from a recent academic source (within the past seven years) and one from a recent professional source (within the past five years). Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: April 1 (priority deadline) or June 15 (final deadline) for fall admissions Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Students from underrepresented groups may apply (by emailing the program director) for the limited number of application fee waivers. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Please refer to Graduate Student Financial Aid for more information on financial aid. Curriculum Year 1 - Fall (9 credits) PPOL-G 611 Public Policy Processes: Environmental Power and Outcomes PUBPOL 620 Analytic Methods for Public Policy PPOL-G 621 Microeconomics Year 1 - Spring (9 credits) PUBPOL 610 Policy and Program Evaluation PPOL-G 602 Political Economy of Class, Race and Gender PPOL-G 622 Public Finance and Budgeting Year 1 - Summer (3 credits) PUBPOL 699 Internship (can substitute with elective) Year 2 - Fall (9 credits) Concentration I: Elective I Concentration I: Elective II Concentration II: Elective I Year 2 - Spring (9 credits) Concentration II: Elective II PUBPOL 698 Capstone The program curriculum requires completion of at least four elective courses. At least two courses should be drawn from one concentration area, and at least two other courses should be drawn from another concentration area. In addition, students are required to complete an internship (after the first year of coursework) and a capstone research project (during the second year of study). Students can choose two from three possible concentrations: Nonprofit Organization Policy and Management; Social Policy and Racial Equity; and Data Analytics and Policy Simulation. Graduation Criteria Program Requirements The program requires 39 credits of coursework including: Six semester‐length courses for the core curriculum (18 credits) Four semester‐length concentration courses in 2 different concentration areas (12 credits) Internship [can be replaced by elective] (3 credits) Capstone project (6 credits) Students are expected to complete the 39-credit coursework, which includes ten three-credit courses, a three-credit internship (an elective can replace that), and a six-credit capstone project, within two years. All courses will be delivered in a synchronous format to foster real-time engagement and learning. Capstone: Completion of a written paper and oral presentation. Internship: There are multiple ways to satisfy the internship requirement. One is to complete the three-credit course PUBPOL 699 Internship in the summer after the first year. This will require students to coordinate with the Internship course instructor during the spring semester of the first year to choose an internship, to complete the internship during the summer after the first year, to attend PUBPOL 699 class sessions during the first summer session and to make a final internship presentation at the end of the second summer session. Alternatively, if students have sufficient and appropriate recent and/or current professional experience, they can request the MPP program director to waive this internship requirement. Finally, students may choose to take an additional three‐credit elective in place of internship. Learning Outcomes Learning Outcomes for the MPP Program: Mastery of data analytics, science, and policy simulation for inclusive, equitable, and effective policy formulation and analysis Deep knowledge across critical public and social policy areas, with skills in equity audits and racial justice analysis Proficiency in advanced methodologies for evaluating public and nonprofit sector interventions Graduates will: Promote effective and equitable policies through informed analysis and design, improving public value and social justice. Produce impactful research through empirical analysis to address societal issues. Lead in government, nonprofits, and for-profits, driving impactful policy initiatives with advanced analytic methods. Contact Graduate Program Director Amit Patel Amit.Patel@umb.edu (617) 287-6938 Graduate Program Administrator, Outreach and Recruitment Jack Li public.affairs@umb.edu (617) 287-6905 Public Policy & Public Affairs Learn more about UMass Boston's Public Policy & Public Affairs department, our research, and our faculty. Explore Department of Public Policy & Public Affairs The McCormack School Learn more about the McCormack School, a nationally recognized leader in public service education dedicated to social justice and equity. Explore the McCormack School Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms