Graduate Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Graduate Students & Assistantships Home Admissions Graduate Students Graduate Students & Assistantships Graduate Student Resources Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Apply as a Graduate Student Graduate Students & Assistantships FAQs Graduate Student Resources GEO Emergency Support Fund Graduate Teaching Program Center for Statistical Computing Faculty Resources International Students Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented Graduate Student Resources Welcome to UMass Boston! Below is a list of resources to help you during your graduate program. If you can't find what you need, contact us at graduate.studies@umb.edu or 617.287.4000. Watch the Graduate New Student Orientation video Academic Integrity Familiarize yourself with the University’s academic integrity policy in the Student Code of Conduct . Review academic integrity resources. Advising Process differs by program. Contact program staff for more info. Billing Questions about your bill? Contact One Stop , Campus Center, Upper Level. To view and pay your bill, log into Wiser and choose "Finance Center". Graduate tuition and fees Payment plan info Books UMass Boston Bookstore , Campus Center, Upper Level Community Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion guides and resources Resources for LGBTQ+ students and allies Student Veterans' Center Consortium for Graduate Studies in Gender, Culture, Women, and Sexuality The Consortium offers interdisciplinary graduate-level courses, collaborative events and conferences, and engaging micro-seminars for Masters and PhD students that are led by faculty in a range of disciplines. Click here to learn more. Employment Graduate Employee Organization (union for grad assistants) contract and membership Office of Career Services and Internships job search resources Financial Aid and Student Assistance Graduate Student Aid Limited emergency aid may be available — learn more U-ACCESS helps students meet their basic needs and offers a range of services including food pantry access, emergency supplies, legal consultation, and tax preparation assistance. Questions about your aid package? Contact One Stop , Campus Center, Upper Level. Funding Office of Graduate Studies and Admissions grants and resources Office of Research and Sponsored Programs grant database and resources Health Insurance Student health insurance benefits and mandatory coverage policy Health Services General medicine and services offered Counseling Center information, crisis lines, and other resources Housing Off-Campus Living office information and living ID Card Get a Beacon ID card International Student Services International student information Parking and Transportation Get information on parking and fees, and purchase your parking pass. Purchase a discounted semester pass for the MBTA/subway. Shuttle bus schedule Research Access Healey Library materials remotely Search for books, journals, articles, etc., with Healey Library's UMBrella Research guides by area of study Statistical computing workshops sponsored by the Office of Graduate Studies Research and compliance trainings from the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs Visit the Graduate Research Center (Healey Library, 5th floor, Room 026), a computer lab exclusively for graduate student writing and research. Registration Check in with program staff for more guidance. Support Services Contact the Dean of Students Office for help addressing a wide range of academic and personal issues. Disability and access information and registration - 617-287-7430; ross.center@umb.edu The Writing Center provides individualized writing support and a range of programing to support graduate writers. Ombuds Services is a confidential resource for any UMass Boston community member experiencing a university-related problem, conflict, or concern. The Ombudsperson can help you think through complex issues, understand your options, and consider next steps. Where appropriate the Ombuds can provide practical assistance toward a resolution. As a confidential, informal, impartial, and independent third party, the Ombuds is unbiased and "off-the-record." Call 617-506-9449 or email ombuds@umb.edu to schedule a phone, Zoom, or in-person appointment. Teaching Graduate Teaching Program UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms