Bringing Nanotechnology To High School Students - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home COSMIC Projects Bringing Nanotechnology To High School Students Menu menu Menu People Projects Bringing Nanotechnology To High School Students WIPRO Science & Education Fellowship Teacher Curriculum Graduate Student Curriculum Undergraduate Student Curriculum Publications Bringing Nanotechnology to High School Students This study explores ways to bring the exciting field of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology to high school students. The unique approach of this project begins with the exploration of technological tools themselves, using their applications to discover concepts. One approach that we have specifically worked on is introducing an atomic force microscope (AFM) to eighth grade classrooms.  Students are first introduced to the AFM via a scaled up LEGO model of a true AFM that is programmed to collect and display data in a similar manner. Students are engaged in hands-on experiences in exploring the AFM and its various components. In doing so, they learn about the tool's capability to produce images at the nanoscale. Working backwards, students discover concepts such as size and scale, and material properties by reverse engineering the technological tool. The project draws from framework of Educational Reconstruction to design and develop appropriate modules for use in high school. This study is a part of a bigger NSF (DUE: 1723511) funded project, Nano-Makerspace to Make and Explore in the World of the Small ( Matthew Bell, Tejaswini Dalvi). The objective of this project is to expose a broad community of K-12 students, undergraduates, and the general public to the "World of the Small" and the rules that govern the physical world at the nanoscale. The tools, know-how, and environment to explore at the nanoscale has been generally out of reach of typical Makerspaces. Institutions with such capabilities are limited to graduate students, postdoctoral scholars, and research scientists.  These groups are typically very much results-oriented, which does not encourage an environment of self-discovery of interests or skills in this field. The Making movement is just the opposite—it is a process-oriented approach allowing Makers to self-discover talents, skills and interests into typically STEM related disciplines. We intend to provide the tools, environment, and the knowledge to "Makers" to explore the "World of the Small" by applying the principles of Making, Sharing, Giving, Learning, Tooling, Playing, Participating, Supporting, and Changing. View a presentation outlining the project's research (paper accepted for NARST 2020). COSMIC (Center of Science and Mathematics in Context) 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 617.287.7587 This center is part of the College of Education and Human Development and College of Science and Mathematics. This center is part of the College of Education and Human Development and College of Science and Mathematics . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms