Elora.Chowdhury - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Elora.Chowdhury Elora Halim Chowdhury Department: Women's Gender Sexuality Studies Title: Department Chair Location: Wheatley Hall Floor 05 Phone: 617.287.6764 Send Email Area of Expertise Transnational feminisms, critical development studies, gender violence, human rights, narrative and film with an emphasis on South Asia Degrees PhD, Women's Studies, Clark University MA, Women's Studies, Ohio State University BA, Women's Studies & Cultural Area Studies, College of Wooster Professional Publications & Contributions Books Ethical Encounters: Transnational Feminism, Human Rights, and War Cinema in Bangladesh. Philadelphia: Temple University Press. 2022. South Asian Filmscapes: Transregional Encounters . Co-edited with Esha Niyogi De (“Introduction” and “Ethical Encounters: Friendship and Healing in Contemporary Films about the Bangladesh Liberation War”) University of Washington Press: 2020. Interdisciplinary Approaches to Human Rights: History, Politics, Practice. Co-edited with Rajini Srikanth. ("Introduction" and "Ethical Reckoning: Gender, Vulnerability and Agency in Bangladeshi Muktijuddho Film") Routledge: 2019. Dissident Friendships: Feminism, Imperialism, and Transnational Solidarity. Co-edited with Liz Philipose. ("Introduction" and "The Space Between Us: Reading Umrigar and Sangari in the Quest for Female Friendship") University of Illinois Press: Dissident Feminisms Series. 2016. Transnationalism Reversed: Women Organizing Against Gendered Violence in Bangladesh . Albany: State University of New York Press, Praxis: Theory in Action Series, 2011. Awarded the Gloria E. Anzaldúa Book Prize from the National Women's Studies Association (2012). Professor Chowdhury's articles have appeared in Meridians: Feminism, Race, Transnationalism; International Feminist Journal of Politics; Feminist Studies; Feminist Formations; Hypatia: Journal of Feminist Philosophy; South Asia Chronicle; Fashion, Style and Popular Culture; Gender, Place and Culture; Journal of International Women's Studies; Women's Studies International Forum; Human Rights Quarterly; Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society; Cultural Dynamics; HAWWA Journal of the Women of the Middle East and the Islamic World; Journal of Bangladesh Studies and in numerous edited volumes. Recent articles include: “Ethical Reckoning: Human Rights and National Cinema in Bangladesh.” Meridians: Feminism, Race, Transnationalism. Vol 20, No 1. Spring 2021. pp. 151-173. “The Precarity of Pre-existing Conditions.” Feminist Studies. Vol 46, No.3, 2020. pp. 615-625. “Muktijuddho Film as Disruptive Archive, Filmmaker as Witness.” South Asia Chronicle. Vol 10. Special Issue Focus: Bangladesh at 50 edited by Farhan Karim. Fall 2020. pp. 59 – 95. "Reading Hamid, Reading Coates: Juxtaposing Anti-Muslim and Anti-Black Racisms in Current Times." Feminist Formations. Vol 30, Issue 3, 2018. pp. 63-78. "Made in Bangladesh: The Romance of the New Woman." In Rethinking New Womanhood: Practices of Gender, Class, Culture and Religion in South Asia, Nazia Hussein, Editor. London: Palgrave Macmillan Publishers, 2018. pp. 47-70. Additional Information Professor Chowdhury is the Series Editor to the Dissident Feminisms Series at the University of Illinois Press. Awards and Fellowships: In AY 2021-22 Professor Chowdhury was a Fellow at the Newhouse Humanities Center at Wellesley College, MA . She is the past Vice President of the National Women's Studies Association (NWSA) , 2016 – 2018.She held a Senior Research Fellowship from the American Institute of Bangladesh Studies in 2019-20. In 2005, she was awarded a Mellon-Future of Minority Studies Fellowship at Cornell University, and in 2006 she was a Future of Minority Studies Post-doctoral Fellow in the Women's and Gender Studies Program at Syracuse University. In 2007, she served as a co-principal investigator to a multi-year grant from the Ford Foundation for the project, “Engaging Islam: Feminisms, Religiosities & Self-Determinations.” Prior to joining UMass, Professor Chowdhury held appointments at the Gender Resource Center, and the Rural Development Program in BRAC (1996 - 1997), and the Education, Knowledge and Religion Program at the Ford Foundation, New York (2000 - 2004). She also worked as a feature writer for the Daily Star national newspaper in Bangladesh. She serves on the Editorial/Advisory Boards of Studies in South Asian Film and Media ; Journal of Feminist Scholarship ; Feminist Formations ; and Journal of Bangladesh Studies . She is a Member of the Bangladesh Development Initiative . Courses taught: Gender in Global Context Introduction to Human Rights Advanced Topics in Human Rights Gender, Human Rights, and Global Cinema Transnational Feminisms (Honors College) Asian Women in the U.S. Becoming South Asian Gender Development & Globalization Gender Religion and Politics in South Asia (Honors College) Women of Color Gender, Nation, Politics (Graduate Consortium in Women’s Studies) Feminisms and Islam (Graduate Consortium in Women’s Studies) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms