Latin & Classical Humanities MA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Latin & Classical Humanities MA Home Academics Majors & Programs Latin & Classical Humanities MA Request Info Loading... Become a Latinist with the language skills you need to succeed as an educator. Delve into the ancient world, uncover the foundations of Western civilization, and explore the richness of classical languages and cultures with the Graduate Program in Classics at UMass Boston. This interdisciplinary program offers an immersive and rigorous study of ancient Greece and Rome, providing students with advanced knowledge in classical languages, literature, history, and archaeology. Special features of our programs: Innovative active Latin pedagogy. Our instruction frequently incorporates the use of active Latin—speaking and writing, in addition to listening and reading—with the goal of producing Latinists who have a deep and broad understanding of the language. These skills are crucial for high school language classrooms. Accessibility and affordability. Summer, evening and online courses make the program accessible for in-service teachers. As the only public university in the Boston area, UMass Boston is considerably less expensive than neighboring private institutions. Post-Graduation Successes. 100% of our Licensure Track and Applied Linguistics Track graduates are employed as Latin teachers. Our Greek/Latin track students have gone on to PhD programs in Classics and English, or to jobs in other fields, including the Boston-area IT world. National and international reputation. Most of our part-time graduate students teach Latin at schools within driving distance of our campus, but full-time students come from across the country. The Conventiculum Bostoniense attracts Latin speakers from around the globe. Prize-Winning Faculty. Learn how to teach from master teachers. Prof. Jacqueline Carlon, the Graduate Program Director, won the 2017 Society for Classical Studies Award for Excellence in Teaching at the Collegiate Level. Her course on “Methods of Teaching the Latin Language” is a mainstay of the program. Prof. Kenneth Rothwell, who regularly teaches Greek language and literature, won the 2017 UMass Boston Award for Excellence in Teaching. Career Possibilities Teach courses on ancient languages, literature, history, or archaeology at the high school or college or university level. Work in museums or cultural institutions, engaging the public in the exploration of the ancient past. Or, utilize your proficiency in classical languages to translate ancient texts into modern languages, making them accessible to wider audiences. These are just a few of the possibilities. Become a(n): High School Latin Teacher Professor Translator Museum Curator Research Consultant Public Historian Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply In addition to the criteria listed below, applicants must also meet general graduate admission requirements . Applicants must submit undergraduate and graduate transcripts and have at least a 3.0 grade point average in undergraduate work and any prior graduate-level work, with a minimum of 3.25 in the major field. Applicants are expected to present an undergraduate major in classical language, or its equivalent. Students with deficiencies in their Latin preparation may be admitted provisionally and required to take Latin courses at the undergraduate level before full admission to the program. Applicants should submit at least 2 letters of recommendation and a personal statement. An interview should be arranged, whenever feasible. Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum: Applied Linguistics Track Course Requirements Classics Component (18 Credits) Complete 18 credits in Latin, chosen from among graduate Latin semi­nars and Latin electives. Three credits may be earned in a Greek or classical studies graduate course. With prior approval of the graduate program director, a graduate course in an allied department may count toward this requirement. Methods Component (6 Credits) With prior approval of the graduate program director, LATIN 615 may be waived and a 3-credit elective in either applied linguistics or classics taken in its place. LATIN 615 - Methods of Teaching in the Latin Language 3 Credit(s) LATIN 670 - Active Learning methodologies for Teachers of Latin 2-3 Credit(s) Linguistics Component (12 Credits) Substitutions may be made with the prior approval of the graduate program director. APLING 601 - Linguistics 3 Credit(s) APLING 611 - Methods and Materials in Foreign Language Instruction 3 Credit(s) Take two of the following: APLING 603 - Language, Culture and Identity 3 Credit(s) APLING 621 - Psycholinguistics 3 Credit(s) APLING 623 - Sociolinguistics 3 Credit(s) Curriculum: Greek/Latin Track Course Requirements Greek and Latin Courses (30 Credits) A minimum of twelve credits to be earned in Latin, chosen from among graduate Latin classes and seminars, and a minimum of twelve credits to be earned in graduate Greek classes. Six additional credits to be chosen from among either graduate Greek or Latin classes. Electives (6 Credits) Complete two elective courses drawn from among graduate Latin, Greek, classical studies, methods, applied linguistics, and history classes. Curriculum: Initial Licensure Track Course Requirements Classics Component (15 Credits) Complete fifteen credits in Latin, chosen from among graduate Latin semi­nars and Latin electives. With prior permission of the graduate program director, students with exceptionally strong background in the Latin language and literature may be allowed to substitute an applied linguistics, education, or graduate-level Greek class for one of these. Education Component (12 Credits) EDC G 606 - Sociocultural Foundations of Education 3 Credit(s) EDC G 644 - Developmental Stages across the Lifespan 3 Credit(s) EDC G 650 - Rethinking Equity and Teaching for English Language Learners 3 Credit(s) EDC G 643 - Fostering Equitable and Affirming Classroom Environments 3 Credit(s) or EDC G 648 - New Literacies and Emerging Technologies across the Content Areas 3 Credit(s) Methods Component (6 Credits) LATIN 615 - Methods of Teaching in the Latin Language 3 Credit(s) LATIN 670 - Active Learning methodologies for Teachers of Latin 2-3 Credit(s) Licensure Component (3 Credits) LATIN 688 - Initial Licensure Practicum: Student Teaching 3-6 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Applied Linguistics Track Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including six classics component courses, two methods component courses, and four linguistics component courses. Capstone: Pass two comprehensive exams. One will test facility in Latin language; the other will be based on course work in linguistics, on a comprehensive reading list in Latin literature, and on required readings in Greek literature in English translation. Optionally, and upon invitation by the fac­ulty only, students may complete either a final paper (3 credits, approximately 30 pages in length) or a Master’s thesis (6 credits, approximately 60 pages in length, involving extensive original research/scholarship). Both the final paper and the thesis are prepared under the guidance of an individual faculty advi­sor and defended before a committee of three faculty members. Statute of limitations: Four years. Greek/Latin Track Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including ten courses in Greek and Latin and two electives. Capstone: Pass a set of three rigorous comprehensive exams. Two will test facility in Latin and Greek languages, respectively; the third will be an essay exam based on selected readings lists in Latin and Greek literature. By invitation of the faculty only, a 3-credit final paper or a 6-credit Master’s thesis in either Latin of Greek may count toward this requirement; to be eligible for this option, students should normally have completed a minimum of eighteen credits toward the degree and be carrying a GPA of 3.6 or higher (final paper) or 3.75 or higher (thesis). Both the final paper and the thesis are prepared under the guidance of an individual faculty advi­sor and defended before a committee or three faculty members. Statute of limitations: Five years. Initial Licensure Track Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including five classics component courses, four education component courses, two methods component courses, and once licensure course. Capstone: Pass two rigorous comprehensive exams is required. One will test facility In Latin language and the other will be based on selected readings in Latin literature and will test mastery of pedagogical theory and practice. Licensure: Students must take and pass the necessary MTEL exams (Communications and Literacy; Latin and Classical Humanities) before they will be permitted to begin their practicum. Students must also complete 75 hours of observation (pre-practicum experience) in a variety of school settings. Statute of limitations: Five years. Contact Graduate Program Director: Peter Barrios Lech peter.lech [at] umb.edu (617)287-6124 Classics and Religious Studies Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Classics and Religious Studies department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Classics and Religious Studies College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore the College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms