Chromebooks - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Hardware & Labs Labs Chromebooks Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Hardware Purchase Request A Computer Get IT Equipment Loaners Repair Adaptive Computer Lab Labs Bookit Cart Chromebooks Design Faculty Info Grc Gul Hardware Hours Langlab Policies Reservations Staff Student Info Print Surplus Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Chromebooks Don't have a computer for the current semester? Maybe a Chromebook is what you need! Does this sound like you? I need access to my Blackboard I attend class online via Zoom I can use CloudPC via browser to access other software I can do my work through the web browser via CloudPC, or Access Office Online at portal.office.com. I know that UMass Boston Chromebook is unable to install MS Word, Excel, Python, R programming, and some other programs. How to Request a Chromebook Chromebooks are available for pick up on the Healey Library, 2nd floor of the Circulation desk.  If you have questions about Chromebook requests, please contact Library Circulation at 617-287-5900. Fill out the link form below before proceeding for pickup: Request a Chromebook As long as supplies last, you can borrow a Chromebook from IT Services. Just return it by the end of the semester, or sooner if you no longer use it so we can loan it out to other students in waiting.  Return the Chromebook to the Healey Library Circulation desk, 2nd floor. ★ Please note: This program is intended for students without their own computer who have a longer-term need for one. If you need a computer temporarily like if yours is being repaired, there are several options you might consider instead: Short-Term Loans - There are two sources of short-term Chromebook laptop loans on campus. Visit the Campus Center UL Information Desk or the Healey Library 2nd floor Circulation Desk to learn more. Computer Labs - There are several Mac and PC labs for general use on campus. Learn more about on-campus Labs Cloud PC - connect to a current Windows computer with MS Office and other features, using any computer, Linux personal computer, iPad, or tablet you have. Learn more about Cloud PC FAQ Chromebook What’s a Chromebook? It’s a lightweight laptop that runs on Google’s operating system, Chrome OS, instead of the Windows or macOS operating systems. Essentially Chromebook is really just a web browser. Is there a microphone and a camera on Chromebook? Yes What is the Chromebook screen size? 11.6 inches. Can I install any software to the UMass Boston Chromebook? No, you can’t install typical software such as R programming, SPSS, STATA, and many others. However, you may be able to install apps from the Google PlayStore by signing in with your personal Gmail account and password. In addition, you can access via a web browser the CloudPC programs like Word, Excel, SPSS, STATA, and many others for your courses. Can I store files to Chromebook? Yes, but it’s highly recommended to use OneDrive storage for security and backup. It's free to all UMass Boston students and available through OneDrive. How do I connect Chromebook to the school Wifi, eduroam, and sign in to the UMass Boston Chromebook? As long as you can sign in to your UMass Boston email, you can connect to eduroam: The power button is on the top-right key on your keyboard with the "power" symbol icon. Make sure the Chromebook has a Wifi connection first. On-campus to connect to eduroam follow the instructions below: At the bottom right corner next to the battery icon click the Wifi signal Left to the Bluetooth icon, on the dropdown arrow, choose eduroam At EAP Method text box select PEAP from the list Leave the next two as is, scroll to the Identity section At Identity, enter your UMass Boston email address (do not include @umb.edu) and password Click "Connect" Sign into Chromebook You can sign into Chromebook with multiple accounts: first, use your UMass Boston email and UMass Boston email password. You can also sign in with your personal Gmail account which lets you install Apps from the Google Playstore. Bottom center to the right of the screen, click on Add Person Enter your full UMass Boston email (with the @umb.edu), and go through the setup Follow the on-screen instructions To sign in with a personal Gmail account, click on Add Person again and follow the instructions on the screen Can I do with Chromebook what I'm used to doing on my Mac or Windows computer? Because most websites aren't static documents anymore, you can do almost everything you use a Windows or Mac computer for on a Chromebook: Check Email? -- Check your email at umb.edu/webmail . File storage? -- Chromebooks have limited storage, but you can use OneDrive at onedrive.com . Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and more? -- Access Office Online at portal.office.com All UMass Boston websites and web apps should work as normal, including WISER, Blackboard, LinkedIn Learning, etc. Get links for all these at umb.edu/it/help/students There are many more apps by Google and others, at chrome.google.com/webstore/apps CloudPC Still, need Windows functionality on a Chromebook? CloudPC lets you access a full Windows operating system through your web browser and it works great on Chromebooks! Learn more about CloudPC! Note: To set up your Wifi on campus, check out our Wifi page for more instructions. Learn More Learn your Chromebook First-time setup Connecting to Wifi Connecting to Wifi on campus Organize your apps Customize your Chromebook Multitask with windows & tabs Set up & manage multiple desktops with Virtual Desks Use your Chromebook keyboard Chromebook keyboard shortcuts Support options Chromebook Help Center Fix Chromebook Problems Get help from your Chromebook manufacturer Chromebook Help Community Chromebook Accessibility Resources Accessibility Features in Chromebooks Turn on Chromebook accessibility features Chromebook Accessibility Overview from Google Classrooms Chromebook Keyboard Shortcuts Using the Built-in ChromeVox screen reader Zoom in or magnify your Chromebook screen Hear Text Read Aloud Type with your Voice in Google Docs Google Accessibility Support Accessibility Video Resources General Google Accessibility YouTube Playlist Introducing the ChromeVox Next Screen Reader on Chromebooks Using Speech to Text on your Chromebook Using Select-to-Speak on your Chromebook Using Screen Magnification on your Chromebook Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms