Anti Racism Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Student Leadership & Community Engagement Anti Racism Resources Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities Government Student Leadership & Community Engagement About Us Anti Racism Resources Beacon Awards Beacon Voyages For Service Black Community Engagement Series Civic Action Fellowship Community Faculty Firstyear Leadership Institute Grow Jumpstart Leadership Foundations Community Engagement Initiatives Student Testimonials StrongWomen Media Student Arts & Events Council Student Activities Welcome Week The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Anti-Racism Resources In response to ongoing police brutality, systemic racism, and white supremacy, it is (and has been) necessary for us to step forward and put in the work to dismantle these oppressive systems and structures that unequivocally and disproportionately impact not only our UMB students, but our local communities as well. Additionally, we cannot lose momentum and it is our responsibility to ensure that we continue these difficult conversations, and more importantly, the work associated with them. UMass Boston students have done much to forward this tiring but important work, and we as faculty and staff can do more to support them and this work. It is imperative to support them by showing up and committing to the mission of UMass Boston. We must use our platforms for good. In light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which affects low-income and Black, Indigenous & People of Color (BIPOC) communities disproportionately, the Office of Social Justice Leadership and Service (comprised of Student Multicultural Affairs, U-Access, Campus Ministry, and Student Leadership & Community Engagement (OSLCE)) will offer a list of regularly updated anti-racism resources. Our hope is that participants will not feel limited by their schedules and other responsibilities, and that we can create more accessibility for folks to engage with one another and within their communities. Below is a list of examples of how we are encouraging staff and faculty to participate. This is NOT an exhaustive list: Educating yourself (and/or others) on what it means to be anti-racist, about white supremacy, about privilege, etc. Relevant books + podcasts are below: How to be Anti-racist, Ibram X. Kendi White Fragility: Why It's So Hard for White People to Talk About Racism, Robin DiAngelo T he New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness, Michelle Alexander Me and White Supremacy: Combat Racism, Change the World, and Become a Good Ancestor, Layla F. Saad Reproductive Injustice: Racism, Pregnancy, and Premature Birth, Dana-Ain Davis Eloquent Rage: A Black Feminist Discovers Her Superpower, Brittney Cooper So You Want to Talk About Race, Ijeoma Oluo From Here to Equality: Reparations for Black Americans in the Twenty-First Century, William A. Darity & A. Kirsten Mullen Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria? And Other Conversations About Race, Beverly Daniel Tatum Every Day Antiracism: Getting Real About Race in School, Mica Pollock 35 Dumb Things Well-Intended People Say: Surprising Things We Say That Widen the Diversity Gap, Maura Cullen Codeswitch (Podcast) Pod Save the People (Podcast) 1619 (Podcast) Still Processing (Podcast) Black Wall Street 1921 (Podcast) Donating to on-campus organizations and resources that will directly support our students, including: Strong Women, Strong Girls DSP Laptop Donations Tam Tran and Cinthya Felix Immigrant Achievers Scholarship Connecting with local officials and non-profit organizations to advocate for sustainable, structural change 8 Can’t Wait NAACP of Boston – Strengthening the Mass. Civil Rights Act Truth and Reconciliation Commission in Mass. Advocating for the Small Business Relief Fund for Black and Brown Businesses Supporting affordable housing measures in the Greater Boston area Advocating for mental health and substance use support resources for the BIPOC community through The Summit Wellness Group and Detox Local Giving to local and national related causes Black Lives Matter Black Trans Advocacy Coalition The Okra Project Color of Change Daily Table Greater Boston Food Bank Amplify Latinx Alternatives for Community and Environment (ACE) MassVOTE U-Access OSLCE Student Multicultural Affairs Committing to creating spaces for learning & reflection in your everyday work – and communicating how that will be accomplished & holding yourself accountable Providing your input for the new Community Advisory Board with UMB PD by emailing public.safety@umb.edu Continuing to hold teach-ins to strive for continued opportunities for conversation & education We will continue this throughout each semester. The OSLCE biannual Fall and Spring Days of Action will be a continuation of this anti-racism work. We must move beyond performative allyship and commit to lifelong learning, engaging, and work. Our Days of Action follow the SOAP model: S hare, O rganize, A dvocate, P rovoke & P rotest. I also want to encourage you to share this widely with your UMB networks. Thank you for your continued support of our students and the UMass Boston community. We hope you will consider partnering with us on this important initiative, and for a long time to come. Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement Campus Center, 2nd Floor, Suite 2300 617.287.6077 oslce@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms