Facility Access - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Animal Resources Core Facility Facility Access Menu menu Menu Facility Access Federal Regulations Meet The Staff Policies And Procedures Room Reservation Training Facility Access Access to ARCF rooms must be requested for all faculty, staff, students, contractors, and visitors. Please note: prior to requesting access individuals must have a UMass Boston BeaconCard obtained through the Department of Public Safety and be associated with an approved IACUC protocol. Facility Access SOP The PI (or delegate with a copy to the PI) should email their request to arcf@umb.edu . The body of the email should include the following: Requests for students should include: student name, student ID#, IACUC protocol number(s), and room numbers Requests for contractors and visitors should include a name, his/her institution or agency and purpose of the animal facility visit, date(s) involved, and contact information for the host. Note: An employee must accompany all visitors the entire time they are in an animal facility. Contractors and visitors must comply with all applicable policies and procedures required of staff. Additional restrictions may also apply (i.e. removing documents, records, or animals, and taking photographs or making recordings). The ARCF staff will review and forward request to the Department of Public Safety Once processed, the P.I. and student will receive an ‘Access Activation’ email notice ARCF staff will provide a general facility orientation Animal Resources Core Facility 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms