Language Programs & Courses - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Latin American & Iberian Studies Language Programs & Courses Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Research & Impact Faculty & Staff Resources for Students Language Programs & Courses Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Language Programs & Courses Spanish Language Program Our Spanish language courses are designed to the improve students’ communication skills via activities that focus on cultural knowledge, speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Students are placed into a course that is appropriate to their language knowledge level. I am a native speaker of Spanish Native and heritage speakers must take a written placement test to find out what class is appropriate for them. To schedule a placement test, contact the Department Manager, Ms. Peggy Fitzgerald via email margaret.fitzgerald@umb.edu or phone 617.287.7550 . I speak Spanish at home/my family speaks Spanish. Native and heritage speakers must take a written placement test to find out what class is appropriate for them. To schedule a placement test, contact the Department Manager, Ms. Peggy Fitzgerald via email margaret.fitzgerald@umb.edu or phone 617.287.7550 . I have taken a Spanish AP class. Students who earn a score of 3 on the AP in Spanish Language receive the equivalent of Span 101 and 102 when they come to UMB. Students who earn a 4 or 5 receive the equivalent of Span 201 and 202. https://admissions.umb.edu/uploads/documents/AP_Credit_Policy_2019.pdf All scores must be sent directly from the College Board to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. For more information contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions via email undergrad.admissions@umb.edu or phone 617.287.6100. I took one or more Spanish classes in high school. Students who have taken one or more years of high school Spanish language courses must take a placement test to find out what class is appropriate for them. To take a placement test, go to the Testing Center. For most effective results, use Google Chrome or Firefox browsers. To take the exam you need to provide First name, Last Name, UMass Boston Student ID number, and UMass Boston student email address. I Have Not Taken Spanish Before Students who have not taken Spanish or grown up in a Spanish speaking household may register directly into SPAN101. There is no need to take the Placement Test. For more information contact the Language Program Coordinator, Professor Simone deLemos via email simone.delemos@umb.edu Portuguese Language Program All our Portuguese language courses are designed to the improve students’ communication skills via speaking, listening, and writing activities. Students are placed into a course which is appropriate to their language knowledge level. The students who have taken one or more years of Portuguese language in high school are required to take the Placement Test at the department main office. Heritage speakers cannot register for the course without taking the Written Placement Test, also at the department main office. Placement Test for Students with One or More Year of Portuguese in High School Written Placement Test for Heritage Portuguese Speakers Placement Test for Students of Portuguese Language To ensure your achievement and enjoyment of our exciting courses, students who take more than one year of Portuguese in high school level and are not heritage speakers of the language are required to take a placement test at the department main office, the department main office, located on the fourth floor of McCormack Hall, Room 618. For more information, please contact our department manager, Ms. Peggy Fitzgerald, via email at margaret.fitzgerald@umb.edu or phone (617.287.7550). Written Placement Test for Heritage Speakers The department offers various exciting courses for students of different levels. In order to ensure your success and enjoyment of our courses, Heritage speakers of Portuguese are required to take the placement test at the department main office, located on the fourth floor of McCormack Hall, Room 618. For more information, please contact our department manager, Ms. Peggy Fitzgerald, via email at margaret.fitzgerald@umb.edu or phone (617.287.7550). UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms