Stormwater Info - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Stormwater Info Menu menu Menu About Us Building Evacuation Plans Covid19 Education & Training Emergency Environmental Mwra Soil Management Stormwater Info Fire Safety Forms Indoor Air Quality Lab Safety Policies Guidance Standard Operating Procedures Sop Worker & Campus Safety Stormwater Information Stormwater Management: Only Rain Down the Drain What is stormwater pollution? When rain hits the ground or when snow starts to melt, this stormwater running across paved surfaces comes in contact with all sorts of trash (think paper napkins, pet waste, and other substances improperly disposed of). The stormwater flows into the campus storm drains and to nearby bodies of water, carrying trash and pollutants with it. This can contribute to all sorts of problems such as flooding, erosion, and water quality issues. How is the University managing this? We’ve got a plan! Take a look at our Stormwater Management Program (SWMP) and feel free to provide any feedback for improvement. This plan addresses stormwater regulations, operations, and maintenance, and follows guidelines prepared by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The University has also adopted various practices to reduce stormwater pollution. These include annual parking lot sweeping, catch basin cleaning, training of facilities personnel, and utilizing Low Impact Development approaches in new projects on campus that might generate stormwater. What should you do to help? Helping to prevent stormwater pollution is simple! Just keep these words in mind: “Only rain down the drain.” Here are some tips: Never pour chemicals (e.g. soap, antifreeze, etc.) on the ground, paved areas, or into storm drains. Properly dispose of all solid waste, trash, and recyclable materials in designated and covered dumpsters and bins. Keep your car regularly tuned up to prevent fluids from leaking onto the ground. Pick up and properly dispose your pet’s waste. Let us know if you see any problems, such as a clogged storm drain or excessive litter around a drain. Report any issues or incidents to the Office of Environmental Health and Safety by emailing umbehs@umb.edu or calling 617.287.5445. "Fowl" Water by ThinkBlue Massachusetts UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms