- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 National Association of Division III Athletic Admi Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications National Association of Division III Athletic Administrators Gives Charlie Titus Lifetime Achievement Award 07/10/2020 |
    Office of Communications The National Association of Division III Athletic Administrators (NADIIIAA) Thursday named Charlie Titus, the newly retired vice chancellor of athletics and recreation, special programs and projects, the recipient of the 2020 Richard A. Rasmussen Lifetime Achievement Award. The award, which was named after NADIIIAA’s executive director, is presented to someone who has had a significant impact on Division III during the course of his/her career. The founding father of the Athletics Department at UMass Boston, Titus retired from the university June 30 after a career that spanned four decades. Titus began his long and successful tenure at UMass Boston in the mid 70s when he became the head coach of the club men’s basketball team. That group, led by Titus, would lay the foundation for the creation of the Athletics Department on the harbor campus. Titus, who was named the first director of athletics, led the Beacons to immediate success as the men’s ice hockey team won the first conference championship in school history in just their second year as an NCAA-sponsored program. Just a few short years later, the women’s track and field team emerged on the national scene as the top program in the country.  They would win a combined four NCAA Division III national titles from 1984-86, which included winning both the indoor and outdoor titles in 1986. Throughout Titus's tenure, the Beacons have hoisted a combined six national championships, six NCAA regional titles, and more than 30 conference championships. Student-athletes have earned All-America status more than 50 times. Most recently, three Beacons have earned National Player/Athlete of the Year honors. Along with establishing the Athletics Department at UMass Boston, Titus also led the charge in the creation of the Little East Conference (LEC). In 1984, Titus called the first meeting of a select group of New England universities that led to the founding of the LEC. In 2012, he was in the inaugural class to be inducted into the Hall of Fame. Titus has served on multiple conference, regional, and national committees during his unprecedented career. When not working in college athletics, Titus was a visionary and leader in the community of Boston. He has been associated with some of the most influential leaders in the city’s history and has been a mentor to countless youth. Most recently, Titus made a lasting impact at UMass Boston on the academic side. Along with the help of New Balance, Titus procured the largest donation in UMass Boston history, $5 million, the create the new Sports Leadership and Administration program. Titus will be honored in the coming months by NADIIIAA for his countless contributions to Division III athletics. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms