WHO FAQs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home The Manning College Student Success & Engagement WHO WHO FAQs Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Advising CIPO WHO WHO FAQs Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Writing House Online FAQ Questions about Tutoring Services Q: How do I know if I need a tutor? A: All writers can benefit from working with a tutor, from new college students to advanced graduate students working on dissertations. WHO supports all CNHS students, in both nursing and exercise and health sciences. Q: English is not my first language. Can I still use the Writing Center? A: Of course, many of our students are non-native speakers. Q. Do WHO tutors do proofreading or copy-editing? A: WHO tutors do not proofread or copy edit papers. Instead, they empower you to edit your own papers by helping you improve your revising and editing skills Q: Can I make a WHO appointment if I want help before I start writing? A: We know that writing involves many steps. We can help students make sense of the assignment instructions, get started on an outline, develop a draft, or practice proofreading. Q. Can I work with WHO tutors on general education or elective assignments? A. We can help you with assignments from any course that you are taking at UMB. Q: Can WHO help me with the University’s Writing Proficiency Evaluation (WPE)? A: WHO can help you with reading comprehension, understanding the question, organizing your thoughts, and revising your WPE essays. Q: Can WHO tutors help me with personal statements, resumes, or cover letters? A: WHO is happy to assist with crafting ideas for personal statements, resumes, or cover letters. However, we advise you to utilize Career Services for resume or cover letter support for jobs. Q: Can WHO tutors help with reading comprehension? A. WHO tutors can help you read through a piece and give you reading strategies to use on your own. Q: How can I get the most out of my online tutoring session? A: Give your writing tutor as much information as possible. Upload the rubric and assignment requirements from your course syllabus to your appointment. Decide before your one-on-one appointment what you would specifically like help with. It is up to you to ask for the kind of help that you think will be most valuable at this stage in your writing process. Q: How can I get the most out of my paper feedback session? A: Give your writing tutor as much information as possible. Upload the rubric and assignment requirements from your course syllabus to your appointment. Type questions that you would like to ask your tutor at the top, within the body, or in the margins of your paper. Make sure you upload your document 12 hours before your appointment. Questions about Appointments Q. How can I upload my documents to my appointment? A. Upload your documents 12 hours before your appointment: Click "edit appointment" at the bottom of your appointment window and attach your essay (in word format) with the assignment instructions and rubric as needed. Q. How long does it take to get a paper feedback returned? A. We will review your paper and email you our feedback within 12-24 hours of your appointment time. We can typically provide feedback on 7-8 pages of writing per appointment. Q. How far in advance should I book an appointment before an assignment is due? A: If possible, we recommend bringing in a draft at least one week before your assignment is due so that you will have enough time to continue to revise and finalize your assignment as needed. Q: How many appointments can I make per day? Per week? A: You can schedule one appointment with WHO per day, and up to two appointments per week. We encourage you to schedule weekly appointments to build your writing, reading and research skills. Q: What should I do if there are no appointments available? A: You can join a waiting list through our scheduling system, and you will be notified if an appointment becomes available, or you can email us and we may be able to open up an appointment that suits your needs. Q. What if I need to cancel my appointment? A: If you are unable to make your appointment, please cancel your appointment online if it is within 12 hours of the appointment or email us and let us know. Q. Can I reschedule an appointment? A: If the appointment is missed without notification, it is recorded as a missed appointment. If you miss two appointments during a semester, your account may be deactivated from scheduling appointments for the remainder of the semester. Please reach out to us if you have extenuating circumstances. Q. What if I miss my appointment? A: If the appointment is missed without notification, it is recorded as a missed appointment. If you miss two appointments during a semester, your account may be deactivated from scheduling appointments for the remainder of the semester. Please reach out to us if you have extenuating circumstances. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms