Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Philosophy Student Resources Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Student Resources Philosophy Club The student-run Philosophy Club sponsors weekly meetings, talks and papers, and faculty-student ‘Symposia’ are held twice each semester. UMB Philosophy club featured on APA blog - thanks to Prof Lande and ex-pres Sarah Lancaster! Note that the club is still an active and a space of wild discussion. Meetings are same time, sometimes different place: Fridays at 3pm -either in W5-041 or upstairs in W6-094, please email the club president, Elliot.Sargent001@umb.edu, to get on the email list where you will receive weekly meeting info. Seminars and Talks The Department sponsors and often co-sponsors seminars and talks on many topics and various venues. The Applied Ethics Center The Applied Ethics Center promotes research, teaching, and awareness of ethics in public life. Our current projects are concerned with the ethics of emerging technologies and the ethics of public memory and controversial monuments. Podcast The Ethics in Action Podcast features conversations with academics, policy makers, and activists. We talk about topics at the intersection of ethics, politics, and technology. Scholarships, Honors and Special Awards Outstanding graduating seniors in each major and in the Philosophy and Law Program of Study are honored with book awards. The Martin Andic Prize is awarded each year to the outstanding graduating philosophy major. The Rev. Dr. J. Theodore Klein Scholarship The purpose of the Rev. Dr. J. Theodore Klein Scholarship is to aid students studying Philosophy and Ethical Philosophy. The Philosophy Department is honored to host this legacy, which memorializes Professor Klein’s scholarship on the ethics of care, service to his community, and dedication as an educator. Past Winners: 2022: Jacob Burley; Sarah Kalkert; Maria Paula Tapia Betancourt; Eva Izquierdo,; Elliot Boodhan; Marcela Lopez 2023: Mohammeddeq Taakilo; Elliot Sargent Vendela Carlson and the Philosophy Office The social and information center of the department is the Philosophy Office (Wheatley, 5th floor, room W-5-0017) and the Student Lounge (W--5-0047). Both are run by our exceptional department administrator, Vendela Carlson. She can answer all your questions about the mechanics of the department, and our degrees. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms