Accessibility Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Civil Rights & Title IX ADA & Accommodations Accessibility Resources Menu menu Menu ADA & Accommodations Accessibility Resources Accommodations Event Accommodations Temporary Accessible Parking Sexual Respect & Title IX Civil Rights Resolution Process Policies & Forms Laws & Regulations File a Complaint Get Support & Resources Contact Us Accessibility Resources Internal Resources The Ross Center for Disability Services The Ross Center for Disability Services provides our students with a full range of support services including assistive technology, extended time on quizzes/tests, interpreters of American Sign Language, less distracting testing room, recorded textbooks, readers, scribes, registration of classes, and more. Services are available to online students as well. The Ross Center strives to create inclusive academic environments by advancing universal design throughout the university and by providing academic accommodations, resources, and training in assistive technology, and information to increase the understanding of disability throughout the university community. The Ross Center is in located on the Upper Level of the Campus Center. Office hours are Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tel: 617.287.7430. UMass Boston Alert System The UMass Boston Alert System is a communications service that UMass Boston provides for all students, faculty, and staff. It allows university officials to notify the campus community of emergencies or significant threats to campus safety. Everyone with a UMass Boston email address is already registered to receive these alerts by email. You may log into the system to add a cell phone or change your preferred email preferences. Disability Parking There are various disability parking spaces in every parking lot. If you need further assistance contact the Office of Parking and Transportation at 617.287.5041 In addition, The RIDE , MBTA’s door-to-door, shared-ride paratransit service transports community members to our campus. Personal Evacuation Plan The Office of Emergency Management and the Office of Environmental Health and Safety can be contacted to learn more about our policies and practices in such areas as campus evacuation plans, personal safety plans, fire safety, and the campus closure policy. In addition, an individual with a disability may want to review the information available on ready.gov to help devise a personal plan in case of local emergency. External Resources Job Accommodation Network (JAN) The Job Accommodation Network (JAN) is the leading source of free, expert, and confidential guidance on workplace accommodations and disability employment issues. Working toward practical solutions that benefit both employer and employee, JAN helps people with disabilities enhance their employability, and shows employers how to capitalize on the value and talent that people with disabilities add to the workplace. Massachusetts Developmental Disabilities Council The Massachusetts Developmental Disabilities Council addresses important issues affecting people with developmental disabilities. The council establishes its priorities based on input from people with developmental disabilities and their families, as well as citizens, advocates, and other interested individuals. The MDDC is dedicated to empowering people with developmental disabilities and their families to enjoy full productive lives within our communities. National Council on Disability The National Council on Disability provides a list of resources for persons with disabilities. Massachusetts Commission for the Blind The Massachusetts Commission for the Blind provides the highest quality rehabilitation and social services leading to independence, and economic self-sufficiency through employment, and full community inclusion for the blind. Massachusetts Commission for the Deaf & Hard of Hearing The Massachusetts Commission for the Deaf & Hard of Hearing increases support and technical assistance for schools and programs providing quality K-12 education to deaf and hard of hearing students and enhances the supply of communication services and technology for deaf and hard of hearing individuals and their families. The Massachusetts Office on Disability The Massachusetts Office on Disability works to ensure the full and equal participation of all people with disabilities in all aspects of life. The Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission will investigate complaints of discrimination. Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination One Ashburton Place Suite 601 Boston MA 02108 617.994.6000 mcad@mass.gov Equal Employment Opportunity Commission John F. Kennedy Federal Building 475 Government Center Boston, MA 02203 800.669.4000 Office of Civil Rights & Title IX Quinn Administration Building, 3rd Floor phone: 617.287.7391 email: Civilrights.titleix@umb.edu File a Complaint Get Support & Resources Contact Us UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms