Meet The Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Writing Center About Us Meet The Staff Menu menu Menu About Us Commitment To Anti Racism History Locations & Hours Meet The Staff Mission & Commitments Community Norms & Policies Research & Assessment Services For Faculty Services For Students Meet the Staff Administrative Staff María Carvajal Regidor Assistant Professor of English, College of Liberal Arts Writing Center Director maria.carvajal@umb.edu Expertise: Writing studies, writing center studies, literacy, Latinx literacies, race and language Daniel Messier Senior Lecturer in English, College of Liberal Arts Assistant Director, Writing Center daniel.messier@umb.edu Danah Hashem Assistant Director, Writing Center Expertise: Multimodal composition, audio and sonic rhetoric, digital literacies, and rhetoric danah.hashem@umb.edu Turner Byrd Program Coordinator, Writing Center turner.byrd @umb.edu Expertise : HR/p ayroll, s tream -of-consciousness lite ratur e , q ueer and gender s tudies , m oderni sm , c omposition education Consultant Staff Our trained peer writing consultants are undergraduate and graduate students at UMass Boston. They come from majors and programs from across the university. You can choose who you want to work with when you make an appointment. We recommend that graduate students work with graduate consultants. Find our consultants' bios, their areas of expertise and interests below. Meet our Consultants Scott A. Scott is a graduate Creative Writing student from Melbourne, Australia. He’s interested in all modes of writing, and all stages of the writing process and loves helping the essence of what a writer is trying to express, shine. In his spare time he . . . well, he would love to leave open the prospect of doing anything (not immoral), but in reality he is most typically just drinking coffee, writing or reading. Preferred citation style: APA Language(s): English Ritu B. Ritu (she/her) is a graduate Ph.D. student in School Psychology with a focus on Social Emotional Learning (SEL). Originally from Bangalore, India, Ritu is excited to work with writers from diverse backgrounds and disciplines. With a strong commitment to social justice, Ritu is dedicated to creating a welcoming and inclusive space for writers to explore their ideas and achieve their writing goals. Outside of academia, Ritu enjoys reading, working out, and trying out new recipes she discovers on Instagram. Preferred citation style: APA Language(s): English Anthony B Anthony (he/him) is an undergraduate senior pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Communication with a minor in Professional and New Media Writing. Anthony enjoys working with other students in all aspects of writing, especially those looking to become more clear and effective writers. In his free time, he enjoys golfing and watching sports with his friends. Preferred citation style: APA or MLA Language(s): English Sophie B. Sophie (she/her) is an undergraduate English major with a concentration in Creative Writing, along with a minor in Anthropology. She is passionate about working with fellow writers through all areas of writing, and values each session greatly because of how much she is able to learn from each conversation. She is prepared to work together on any step of the writing process, but she especially loves workshopping creative writing such as poetry, prose, graphic novels, etc. In her free time, she loves traveling, practicing yoga, exploring new spots in the city, and playing guitar. Preferred citation style: MLA or APA Language(s): English Matt C. Matt (he/him) is an undergraduate student in English (Professional & New Media Writing concentration) and minoring in Anthropology. He enjoys organizing information for clarity and helping writers with anything they bring, from parking ticket appeals to grad school assignments! He's a Marine Corps veteran and Wildland Firefighter in Arizona, so he can help with federal résumés too! He likes cooking, vision boarding, watching movies, and playing video games. He’s also a co-parent of two ungovernable bunnies. Preferred citation style: Any Language(s): English Tom C. Tom (he/him) is a graduate student from Brockton, MA studying English. After a decade-long career in wholesale, he completed his undergraduate at UMass Boston, where he double majored in English and History. He enjoys collaborating with writers throughout all stages of the writing process on both academic and professional writing tasks. Outside of academia, his interests include baseball, motorcycles, and media preservation. Preferred citation style: MLA or Chicago Language(s): English Kevin C. Kevin (he/him) is an undergraduate Political Science major enjoys helping writers work on their essay drafting process to give their papers a strong outline. In his free time Kevin likes to cook, play board games, and is a big Boston sports fan. Preferred citation style: MLA or Chicago Language(s): English Michelle D Michelle (she/her) is an undergraduate sophomore student studying Urban Public Health with a minor in Creative Writing. Whether academic or creative, she is passionate about aiding writers to enhance their work while also allowing their personal voice to shine through in their writing. She speaks Vietnamese conversationally, specifically the southern dialect, and is willing to work with writers who speak Vietnamese. When not working or engaged in her studies, she enjoys indulging in fantasy literature, listening to Taylor Swift, and playing Stardew Valley. Preferred citation style: MLA or APA Language(s): English and Vietnamese Sullivan D. Sullivan (he/him) is an undergraduate sophomore studying Psychology with a Mathematics Minor at UMB who never stops thinking about writing. He is currently working on a novel he hopes to release sometime in his college career. He’s always looking for cool bookstore recommendations. Preferred citation style: APA or MLA Language(s): English Neena D. Neena (she/her) is an undergraduate junior pursuing a bachelor’s degree in English Education from Stoneham, Massachusetts. She is excited to work with students from all areas of studies on their papers, particularly in structuring and analysis building. Her favorite book genre is fantasy and in her spare time, Neena loves listening to music and finding new cafés in the city. Preferred citation style: CLA Language(s): English Briana D. Briana (she/her) is an undergraduate English major and secondary education minor in her senior year at UMB and is so excited to work with everyone this semester! She loves reading any type of fiction and especially with helping others with their own creative writing since she loves to write her own novels and short stories. When she’s not in class or working, Briana loves to spend time with her friends and explore Boston as much as possible, especially if it includes activities like escape rooms, movies, and finding fun coffee places (an obsession of hers). Language(s): English Ben G. Ben (he/him) is an undergraduate senior psychology student from Montpelier, Vermont. He likes helping students with essay structure, their outlines, and helping students edit their drafts. In his free time he loves playing basketball, eating food, and kicking it with his friends. Preferred citation style: APA Language(s): English Janayda H. Janayda Hernandez is an undergraduate senior psychology major. She loves helping people get started on their essays. Whether you’re a new writer or someone with more experience, she's here to guide you through the process and make it less daunting. Building relationships with both new and current writers is something Janayda truly enjoys, as it allows her and writers to learn from each other and grow together. Her goal is to create a supportive and collaborative environment where creativity can thrive. Preferred citation style: MLA or APA Language(s): English Elham K. Elham (she/her) is a graduate Ph.D. student in Applied Linguistics at UMass Boston. She enjoys interacting with others, building connections with fellow writers, as well as brainstorming and learning with them. Elham has written several academic papers in her master’s and doctoral programs and has published a few of her works. When it comes to writing a good piece, she tends to take her time with doing enough reading, organizing her thoughts, starting the writing with patience without worrying about mistakes, and revising the piece several times. She is excited to assist her peers in finding their unique way to put their great ideas on paper. Elham is also very responsive and caring. Preferred citation style: APA Language(s): English and Farsi Anne L. Anne (she/her) is an English Literature graduate student here at UMB who enjoys meeting with students in every major and every year, from freshmen to PhD candidates. Whether you are cleaning up a chemistry lab report, drafting a business policy briefing, or working on a literary analysis essay, she can help you tackle it all. In her free time, Anne enjoys watching indie horror movies and playing guitar. Preferred citation style: MLA Language(s): English Jack L. Jack (he/him) is a graduate PhD student in Sociology who specializes in studying online communities and digital culture. In academia, he most often works on empirical social science research, but he loves helping writers turn a brainstorming session into a workable outline. Outside of academia, Jack plays music, cooks, and likes long walks on the harbor walk. Preferred citation style: ASA or APA Language(s): English Taylor M. Taylor (she/her) is an undergraduate sophomore at UMass Boston pursuing an English degree. She enjoys helping others with their writing needs, whether it be brainstorming and outlining or revising and polishing drafts. In her free time, Taylor loves to read and explore Boston with friends. Preferred citation style: MLA Language(s): English Taylor M. Taylor ( s he/ h er) is an undergraduate sophomore at U M ass Boston pursuing an English degree. She enjoys helping others with their writing needs, whether it be brainstorming and outlining or revising and polishing drafts. In her free time, Taylor loves to read and explore Boston with friends. Preferred citation style: MLA Language(s): English Conor M. Conor (he/him) is a graduate MA student in the English program concentrating on composition. He studied political science in undergrad and is very interested in the political implications of writing and language more broadly. He loves seeing the different work that students are doing and the individuality that each person brings to their writing. Outside of academia, Conor enjoys playing in bands throughout Boston and going to Celtics games. Preferred citation style: MLA Language(s): English Elisa M. Elisa (she/her) is an undergraduate sophomore studying English at UMass Boston. Elisa believes that anyone can become a good writer with the right resources and instruction, which is why she wants to become an English teacher. Elisa enjoys watching movies, reading books, spending way too much money on clothes, and having quality time with her friends. Preferred citation style: MLA Language(s): English Ciarán O. Ciarán (he/him) is a third-year undergraduate student from Cape Cod who studies English and anthropology. He enjoys working on any task with writers, but is most familiar with forming outlines and beginning papers. Ciarán loves to learn about language, culture, and geography. Outside of class, he plays in the school’s orchestra, explores the city, and watches soccer. Preferred citation style: MLA Language(s): English Anny P.S. Anny (she/they) is an undergraduate English major and someone who loves to write poetry in their free time. They also really enjoy coming up with a lot of different ideas for short stories. She loves to talk about her dog so do not hesitate to ask about her dog Kasy. Preferred citation style: Any Language(s): English and Spanish Lauren R.M Lauren (she/her) is an undergraduate pursuing bachelor degrees in English and Political Science. She is fluent in Spanish and particularly proficient in MLA and APA formats. She is excited to help writers in all stages of the writing process improve their academic and creative works. Her favorite book genre is science fiction and she has a pet tarantula named Vicky. Preferred citation style: Any Language(s): English and Spanish Stephanie R. Stephanie is getting her graduate M.A. degree in English with a concentration in literature from Richmond, VA; she got her B.A. in English from the University of Kentucky, where she also double minored in Criminology and Sociology. She enjoys consulting with writers in all phases of their writing, and specializes in thesis writing and analysis expansion. In her spare time, Stephanie can be found drinking coffee, reading, and exploring Boston Preferred citation style: Any Language(s): English Ozzie S. Ozzie (he/him) is an sophomore undergraduate Psychology Major at UMB from Chicago, Illinois. He is excited and eager to help students from all backgrouds find ways to better integrate their voice into their writing and ensure that their intended message aligns with how their audience interprets it. He is also farmiliar with APA as well as MLA writing criteria. In his free time, Ozzie enjoys cooking for those he loves, biking around Boston with his friends, and listening to Katy Perry. Preferred citation style: MLA or APA Language(s): English Sophia S. Sophia (she/her) is an undergraduate senior English major who loves working on essay organization, idea generation, and text analysis. She is also pursuing minors in Anthropology and Sociology, and is excited to work with writers from all disciplines here at UMB. Outside of school, Sophia loves listening to music, reading, and going out with friends! Preferred citation style: MLA Language(s): English Neeti S. Neeti (she/her) is an international undergraduate student pursuing a double major in Information Technology and English. Neeti finds joy in assisting writers during consultations to enhance their academic paper writing process. Beyond academics, Neeti loves indulging in artistic endeavors and exploring the creative realm. Preferred citation style: MLA Language(s): English, Gujarati, and Hindi Amelia T. Amelia (she/her) is an undergraduate Anthropology student in her last semester at UMB. As an Anthropology major especially interested in culture, she has a passion for religious studies and sociology as well. Both within and beyond her consultations, she values empathy, communication, and effort with the goal of ending sessions at The Writing Center feeling even better than when you walked-in! Outside of campus, she spends as much time as she can with her bunny, Blue, and loved ones while also dabbling in different forms of art. Preferred citation style: AAA or APA Language(s): English UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms