UMass Boston Community Encouraged to Run - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News UMass Boston Community Encouraged to Run Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Community Encouraged to Run in Pursuit of Change 09/15/2023 |
    Danielle Bilotta Keynote speaker Massachusetts Secretary of the Executive Office of Education, Patrick Tutwiler, PhD, had one request for students, faculty, and staff at this year’s UMass Boston Fall Convocation: Run. UMass Boston 2023 Fall Convocation Keynote speaker Massachusetts Secretary of the Executive Office of Education, Patrick Tutwiler, PhD Image By: Javier Rivas “UMass Boston family, you have the tools, the mindset, the stuff to succeed in the course set in front of you,” he said. “It’s no longer the time to be cautious. You’ve walked before, I'm sure, and now it’s time to run.” While we’re often told the valuable lesson of learning to walk before we run, Tutwiler said, running will help us gain momentum as we wrestle with the ripple effects of the pandemic. “Each individual in this space has the potential to do great things, to solve pressing issues, and we’re relying on you to get there.” As Governor Maura Healy’s top advisor on education, Tutwiler oversees early education, K-12, and higher education across the state and is the first Black Secretary of Education in the Commonwealth’s history. Tutwiler described the current world we live and work in as “pandemic recovery,” and acknowledged how that has shaped education budget and policy initiatives to better meet present and future needs. Within this new envisioned framework, the Executive Office of Education is working toward creating lasting change that isn’t tied to previous goalposts, Tutwiler said. “In our vision for education in the Commonwealth, we have to be intentional to ‘see’ those who the proposed shifts and enhancements will impact,” he said. Tutwiler is a graduate of The College of the Holy Cross, received a master’s in education from Harvard University Graduate School of Education, and a PhD in curriculum and instruction from the Lynch School of Education at Boston College. Growing up in a single-parent household, Tutwiler's family moved around the country to follow his mother’s own professional journey in education, relocating for teaching opportunities and earning her doctorate at the University of Texas in Austin. “With the deep knowledge of an educator but the fierce love of a mother, we watched her fight for my brother and me to ensure that we received the best possible education, no matter what state we found ourselves in,” he said. “We watched her safeguard our potential, respectfully disagree about our placements, labels even, that might otherwise have attached themselves not only to our transcripts, but internally to the view we had of ourselves as learners.” Tutwiler said these experiences informed his own journey to becoming an educator, leading him to operate from a firm set of values that centers students and their best interests, listens and understands the stories of the students and their families, and elevates the most underserved student population. With more than twenty years of experience as a teacher, principal, and superintendent in urban and suburban school districts in Massachusetts, Tutwiler’s leadership has driven education stakeholders to put students and families first. Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco introduced Tutwiler as a “tireless champion of educational equity.” “Your career has placed you in the rarified air of educators who have a 360-degree understanding of public education,” he said. Tutwiler said the instruction and experiences the faculty will deliver to students will help students gain the skills and knowledge needed to be part of the solution to the challenges we’re facing today. He encouraged the audience to run toward something always, to stay exuberant, and to channel their inner child that was always excited at the possibility of something without failure ever entering their mind. “As you move forward from this day, I hope you are quick to leave behind the stuff that will slow you down, that will get in the way on your course,” he said. “For far too long you’ve been cautioned to slow down, but now we’re counting on you, cheering for you, to speed up.” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms