Vision Rehabilitation Therapy Certificate - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Vision Rehabilitation Therapy Certificate Home Academics Majors & Programs Vision Rehabilitation Therapy Certificate Request Info Loading... Gain the skills and training to enhance the vocational opportunities, independent living, and educational development of people with vision loss. UMass Boston’s Vision Rehabilitation Therapy Certificate focuses on training professionals to enhance the vocational opportunities, independent living, and educational development of people with vision loss. It’s designed for teachers and other professionals who want to work with people with visual impairments and teach them daily living skills and strategies for safe, independent living. Explore cutting-edge learning technologies and gain practical hands-on experience through fieldwork. Apply these skills to assist people of all ages in different settings, including rehabilitation agencies, state vocational services for the blind, rehabilitation units of veterans hospitals, programs for elders with visual impairments, nonprofits, in private practice, and more. This program fulfills the eligibility requirements of the Association for Education and Rehabilitation of the Blind and Visually Impaired and prepares you to sit for the national certification exam from the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP). You also have the option to continue on for an additional two semesters to earn a full Vision Studies MEd with a concentration in Vision Rehabilitation Therapy. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply In addition to the criteria listed below, applicants must also meet general graduate admission requirements . Transcripts. Official transcripts from all undergraduate and graduate institutions attended. A 3.0 undergraduate GPA is required. Three Letters of Recommendation. Emphasis should be on academic and professional references. Statement of Interest and Intent (Required Writing Sample). Submit a two-part essay: Explain your reasons for wishing to pursue graduate studies (approximately 300 words). Indicate your specific interest in VRT, and discuss the type of work you would like to do in this field (at least 1,200 words). This statement will be reviewed for both your overall message and your ability to write at the graduate level. Proofread your writing carefully; it is ranked according to its clarity, grammar, and syntax. Personal Interview with Faculty Member. When the Office of Graduate Admissions has notified us of your completed application, we will contact qualified candidates to arrange an interview (either in person or via teleconference). Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: June 15 for fall Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Required Courses (28 Credits) VISN 601 - Physical and Functional Aspects of Visual Impairments 3 Credit(s) VISN 603 - Braille I 3 Credit(s) VISN 604 - Eye Anatomy and Disease 3 Credit(s) VISN 605 - Clinical and Functional Assessment of Vision 3 Credit(s) VISN 630 - Introduction to Vision Rehabilitation Therapy 4 Credit(s) VISN 631 - Methods of Vision Rehabilitation Therapy I 4 Credit(s) VISN 632 - Methods of Vision Rehabilitation Therapy II 4 Credit(s) VISN 639 - Visual Rehabilitation Therapy Practicum 4 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Complete 28 credits from eight required courses. Those who have a background in visual impairment may be eligible to waive up to 9 credits. Minimum grade: No course with a grade below B- may be applied toward the program. Statute of limitations: Three years. Contact Graduate Program Director Laura Bozeman laura.bozeman [at] umb.edu 617.287.4385 School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our School for Global Inclusion & Social Development. Explore School for Global Inclusion & Social Development College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) SARA Compliance, Disclosure & Dispute Resolution UMass Boston programs are designed to meet the requirements for licensure or certification in Massachusetts. Please contact your state licensing or certification board to determine whether the program meets the requirements for licensure or certification in other states. Learn More about SARA UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms