Export Controls - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Research Compliance Export Controls Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Animal Care Biosafety Conflict of Interest Export Controls Human Subjects Responsible Conduct of Research Report A Concern Controlled Substances Diving Research & Safety Program Safe and Inclusive Work Environment Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Export Controls Export controls and trade sanctions are the United States laws and regulations that control and restrict the release of critical technologies, software, equipment, chemical, biological materials, and other materials, and services to foreign nationals and foreign countries for reasons of foreign policy and national security. These laws apply to virtually all fields of science and engineering. They restrict the shipment, transmission, or transfer of certain commodities, software, technology, and services from the U.S. to foreign countries. Deemed exports, i.e. the release of controlled information to foreign nationals located in the U.S., are also restricted under these laws and regulations. Export control laws apply to all activities—not just sponsored research projects. For projects that include the use of export-controlled information, the projects fall under the Commerce Department's Export Administration Regulations (EAR), the State Department's International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), and The Office of Foreign Assets Control . The Principal Investigator has the Following Responsibilities Related to Export Controls Prior to commencing any research, the PI (Principal Investigator) must review and cooperate with ORSP to determine whether any technical information or technology involved in the research is subject to the export control law or regulations and, if so, whether any exclusion is available under the export control regulations. The PI must in cooperation with the ORSP re-evaluate that determination before changing the scope or adding new staff to the project to determine if such changes alter the initial determination. The PI must ensure that export determinations are made far enough in advance to obtain an export license from appropriate agencies when required and if available. The PI must ensure that foreign nationals are excluded from access to restricted data or technology until the availability of an exclusion has been determined, or an export license has been obtained. The University will assist the PI in assessing the application of such regulations, but primary compliance responsibility rests with the PI of the research. A project subject to export controls must have a Technology Control Plan (TPC) in place that outlines the procedures to be taken to handle and safeguard the Export-Controlled Information. It is the responsibility of the PI to develop a written TCP, which then must be approved and signed by the UMass Boston Vice Provost for Research. Education and Training One of the primary elements of an Effective Export Control Compliance Program is Education and Training. At UMass Boston we provide different methods of delivering Export Control basic and more advanced training to our community members who work in roles impacted by export control regulations. The Assistant Director of Research of Research Compliance & Integrity is available to conduct live and virtual customized training sessions for your department or unit upon request or as otherwise needed. Please contact us to coordinate programs that satisfy your particular information and training needs. CITI Export Control Basic Training Modules - UMass Boston University subscribes to CITI Export Control Compliance as an educational offering to our community. These educational sessions help to assist faculty, staff and students understand the concepts of export controls for varying business activities. CITI Export Control modules-based instruction ranges from the basic modules (Introductory course and general overview) to multiple subject-specific modules. US Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security Training Room - A series of short videos (2 - 10 minutes), training modules (6 - 22 minutes), and webinars (15+ minutes) on topics relevant to export control. International Travel All international University Travel is subject to and must be in compliance with export control reviews, rules, and requirements. Prior to travel, all employees must register domestic overnight and international travel in the University Travel Registry and should document their itinerary. Fully documented travel plans allow the University to provide insurance and other coverage as appropriate. International travel requires prior review and approval for compliance with Export Control Sanctions & Embargoes. If an employee is planning on traveling internationally with a University-issued cell phone or device, the employee must request that an international service plan be added to their University-issued cell phone/device. Such requests must be made at least three weeks prior to travel. In addition, Traveler must comply with Export Control requirements and campus and UITS guidelines. International Travel Policy University of Boston Business and Travel Expense Policy Travel Registry (Terra Dotta) Export Controls Policy Statement Questions - Contact Tracey Poston, PhD , Associate Director of Research Compliance & Integrity Related Policies Export Controls Related Links Definitions List of Parties of Concern UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms