Sari.Edelstein - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Sari.Edelstein Sari Edelstein Department: English Title: Professor Location: Wheatley Hall Floor 06 Phone: 617.287.6700 Send Email Biography I am a scholar of ninteenth-century US literature and culture with particular interests in women's writing, ecocritical approaches, the Bildungrsoman and age in the novel, and feminist and queer theory.  I am the author of two books, Between the Novel and the News: The Emergence of Women's Writing (Virginia 2014) and Adulthood and Other Fictions: American Literature and the Unmaking of Age (Oxford 2019), and I serve as co-editor of ESQ: A Journal of Nineteenth-Century American Literature and Culture . My current project, "Beach Reading: A Literary History," charts the emergence of the beach as a cultural institution and site of leisure over the course of the nineteenth century. Area of Expertise Nineteenth-century US literature and culture, women’s writing, environmental humanities, critical age studies, feminist and queer theory Degrees MA, PhD Brandeis University BA, Northwestern University Professional Publications & Contributions Books Adulthood and Other Fictions: American Literature and the Unmaking of Age (Oxford University Press, 2019) Between the Novel and the News: The Emergence of Women's Writing (University of Virginia Press, 2014) Recorded Projects Are You There, Judy? It’s Me, Your Reader – an Audible Original, available on Amazon, 2024 Edited Journal Issues Guest editor, with Ross Barrett, New England Quarterly . Special issue: “Representing Oceanic England.” (forthcoming 2024). Guest editor, with Melanie Dawson. Studies in American Fiction . Special issue: “Critical Approaches to Age in American Literature.” 46.2 (2019). Recent Journal Articles and Book Chapters “‘Nature Abhors the Old’: Emerson’s Transcendental Ageism.” Oxford Handbook to Ralph Waldo . Ed. Christopher Hanlon. Emerson (Oxford UP). Forthcoming 2024. “Reading The Awakening after Hurricane Katrina.” ISLE: Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and Environment (forthcoming 2024). “There is No Such Thing as ‘the Elderly’: Reading Age in Nineteenth-Century American Literature.” Critical Humanities and Ageing: Forging Interdisciplinary Dialogues . Eds. Marlene Goldman, Kate de Medeiros, and Thomas Cole. (New York: Routledge, 2022): 41-50. “Teaching Moby-Dick in the Anthropocene.” Radical Teacher 119 (Spring 2021). “Society to Encourage Studies at Home (in a Pandemic).” co-authored with Danielle Coriale. ESQ: A Journal of Nineteenth-Century American Literature and Culture 67.1 (2021): 346-256. “Not Feeling Right: Queer Encounters with American Women’s Writing.” Legacy: A Journal of American Women Writers 37.1 (2020): 145-153. “‘Good Mother, Farewell’: Elizabeth Freeman’s Silence and the Stories of Mumbet.” The New England Quarterly 92.4 (December 2019): 584–614. “‘Now I Chant Old Age’: Whitman’s Geriatric Vistas.” Common-place: The Journal of Early American Life 19.1 (Spring 2019). Special issue: “Revisiting the Whitmanian Body at 200.” “Over the Hill and Out of Sight: Locating Old Age in Nineteenth-Century American Culture.” Common-place: The Journal of Early American Life 17.1 (Winter 2017). “Reading Age Beyond Childhood.” ESQ: A Journal of Nineteenth-Century American Literature and Culture 62.1 (March 2016): 122-127. Invited contribution. “Louisa May Alcott’s Age.” American Literature 87.3 (September 2015): 517-545. “‘May I Never Be a Man’: Melville’s Redburn and the Failure to Come of Age in Young America.” ESQ: A Journal of the American Renaissance 59.4 (Spring 2013): 553-584. “‘Metamorphosis of the Newsboy’: E.D.E.N. Southworth’s The Hidden Hand and the Antebellum Story-Paper.” Studies in American Fiction 37.1 (Fall 2010): 29-53. [Winner, Pro-Quest-RSAP Prize for best article on periodicals by a pre-tenure scholar] “‘Pretty as Pictures’: Family Photography and Southern Postmemory in Katherine Anne Porter’s ‘Old Mortality.’” Southern Literary Journal 40.2 (Spring 2008): 151-165. “Charlotte Perkins Gilman and the Yellow Newspaper.” Legacy: A Journal of American Women Writers 24.1 (June 2007): 72-92. Additional Information Courses Taught Undergraduate ENGL 200: Introduction to Literary Studies ENGL 202: Six American Authors ENGL 205: One Book in the World (Reading the Whale: Moby Dick and its Worlds) ENGL 372L: American Women Writers and Culture ENGL 379: Literature and Journalism ENGL 408: American Romanticism ENGL 463: Adulting, or Coming-of-Age in Literature ENGL 465: Oceanic Currents in the Literature of the Americas Graduate ENGL 606: Books, Manuscripts, Libraries English 646: Critical Ocean Studies ENGL 651: Nineteenth-Century American Literature ENGL 652: American Romanticism ENGL 659: Women’s Literature and Feminist Theory Professional Affiliations Co-Editor, ESQ: A Journal of Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture Editorial Board, J19: The Journal of Nineteenth-Century Americanists Advisory Board, Institute for Recruitment of Teachers (IRT) , Phillips Academy Co-Director, Center for the Humanities, Culture, and Society (CHCS) Member, UMass Press Committee UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms