Course & Program Governance - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Faculty & Staff Course & Program Governance Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff FERPA Guidelines Forms Policy Reference Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Course & Program Governance Announcements Starting on June 2, the Curriculog login page will change, as authentication services updates continue. The new Curriculog login page will look the same as webmail. You will need to use your full UMB email address (first.last@umb.edu) and continue to use your standard sign-on to log in. In August 2022, the Curriculog forms will be updated to correspond to motions passed by Faculty Council and approved by the Provost. The updated forms will reorganiz Announcements Starting on June 2, the Curriculog login page will change, as authentication services updates continue. The new Curriculog login page will look the same as webmail. You will need to use your full UMB email address (first.last@umb.edu) and continue to use your standard sign-on to log in. In August 2022, the Curriculog forms will be updated to correspond to motions passed by Faculty Council and approved by the Provost. The updated forms will reorganize course change and program change proposals into categories of superficial and substantial. More details on this are located in the Curriculog Proposal Guidelines below. Proposals in process will not be affected by the updates. This page will be updated with the new forms as soon as they become available. Introduction to Curriculog The Curriculog software is a workflow system that is available for all curriculum governance processes at the university. Major benefits of Curriculog include substantial time reduction for faculty in administrative work; a single location for faculty to initiate and perform governance, proposal, and review actions; the ability for all faculty to view all curriculum governance processes; and accuracy in transporting information about courses directly into curriculum governance proposals since Curriculog is linked with the course catalogue system. This increases transparency in shared governance and obviates faculty having to track down lost proposals. In addition, since issues addressed at each step are documented, successive steps are facilitated by access to that documentation. Faculty can view examples of similar completed proposals, which is especially helpful when faculty are new to the process. Curriculog is part of the ongoing building of transparent tools that are designed to improve the quality of work life and effectiveness of support systems throughout Academic Affairs. Contents of this page: Below are reference guides created by the UMass Boston Curriculog Committee (administrative) and by the Curriculog Working Group (faculty), the link to access Curriculog , guidance prepared by the Curriculog Working Group on common curriculum governance actions , a list of which form to use for what purpose , and at the end, contact information for Curriculog Committee and Working Group members who are available for assistance , and General Education reference documents . Curriculog Reference Guides How to sign in, start, and launch a new proposal in Curriculog How to edit and approve a proposal in Curriculog Curriculog Proposal Guidelines (August 2022) , supported by Faculty Council and approved by Provost in May 2022, updated in August 2022 to correspond to new Curriculog forms for AY 22-23 Overview of Curriculum Governance Levels (May 2022), supported by Faculty Council and approved by Provost Curriculog FAQs , thanks to the Curriculog Working Group Accessing Curriculog Log in to Curriculog using your UMass Boston log-in and password Guidance on Common Actions Proposing a new undergraduate course Proposing a new graduate course Superficial updates to an existing undergraduate or graduate course Substantial updates to an existing undergraduate course Substantial updates to an existing graduate course Superficial updates to an undergraduate or graduate program Substantial updates to an undergraduate program Substantial updates to a graduate program Proposing a new undergraduate or graduate program Which Form to Use? If you want to... then use this form... Course Actions Undergrad form Graduate form Make a substantial change to a course; most course changes are substantial (see list under uc2/gc2 for what counts as a superficial course change) uc1 UGRD Course Change - Substantial gc1 GRAD Course Change - Substantial Make a superficial change to a course that does not alter students' experience of the course - includes changing a course number (when first digit stays the same), and line edits to short course title, long course title, and/or course description; generally this is to correct typos or make clarifications or slight corrections to course descriptions; superficial changes undergo an abbreviated process of governance review uc2 UGRD Course Change - Superficial gc2 GRAD Course Change - Superficial Propose a new course uc3 UGRD Course - New gc3 GRAD Course - New Reactivate an undergraduate course that is currently inactive; if you are updating an inactive course, you only need to use uc1 or uc2, the course will be reactivated as part of the approval of the updates uc4 UGRD Course - Reactivation gc4 GRAD Course - Reactivation Add a General Education area(s) to an undergraduate course: Distribution, Diversity, Seminar, QR, Capstone * If submitting a proposal for a new course (uc3) that also has a Gen Ed designation, uc5 must also be submitted. * If updating an existing course (uc1 or uc2) and adding a Gen Ed designation, uc5 must also be submitted. * If recognizing a Gen Ed designation in an existing course without modifying the course other than updating the course description to specify the Gen Ed designation (uc2), uc5 must also be submitted. uc5 UGRD Course - Add General Education N/A Program Actions Undergrad form Graduate form Make a substantial change to a program; most program changes are substantial (see list under up2/gp2 for what counts as a superficial program change). Use forms up1 or gp1 for substantial changes to any programs, including undergraduate degrees, majors, minors, tracks, concentrations, options or certificates; and PhD or master's degrees, graduate certificates, tracks, concentrations, or options within a graduate degree or certificate. up1 UGRD Program Change - Substantial gp1 GRAD Program Change - Substantial Make a superficial change to a program that does not alter students' experience of the program. This corresponds to the former "degree audit update). The most common two types of change that this form is used for are to add courses (which already exist) to an existing program, and to change aspects of an elective option as long as the changes do not impact the fundamental program structure or requirements. up2 UGRD Program Change - Superficial gp2 UGRD Program Change - Superficial Propose a new undergraduate or graduate program. These requests have off-campus review steps. For undergraduate programs, use this form if you are proposing a new undergraduate degree or major, or an undergraduate certificate of 30 credits or more. For graduate programs, use this form if you are proposing a new doctorate or master's degree program, or a graduate certificate of 30 credits or more. up3 UGRD New Degree, Major, or Certificate > or = 30 cr gp3 GRAD New Doctorate, Master's, or Certificate > or = 30 cr Propose a new undergraduate minor, concentration, track, or certificate of less then 30 credits; or propose a new graduate track, option, or certificate of less than 30 credits. These requests typically do not have off-campus review steps. up4 UGRD New Minor, Concentration, Track, or Certificate < 30 cr gp4 GRAD New Track, Option, or Certificate < 30 cr Reactivate an undergraduate or graduate program that was previously suspended. up5 UGRD Program Reactivation gp5 GRAD Program Reactivation Suspend or terminate an existing undergraduate or graduate program. up6 UGRD Program Termination or Suspension gp6 GRAD Program Termination or Suspension Non-Course and Non-Program Actions Form to use Form to use Create a new or change an existing non-credit undergraduate or graduate course nc1 UNIV Noncredit Course nc1 UNIV Noncredit Course Create a new or change an existing non-credit undergraduate or graduate program nc2 UNIV Noncredit Program nc2 UNIV Noncredit Program Add a new course subject that currently does not exist in WISER s1 UNIV New Course Subject s1 UNIV New Course Subject If you would like to update/change committee members, please email Janette White (Janette.White) in the Provost's Office to obtain a link to a Qualtrics form to fill out with updated information. Contact Janette White Contact Janette White Additional Notes New Course forms should be used for proposing new courses within existing subjects. If the subject does not yet exist in WISER, use a New Course Subject form first. Once the subject is approved and entered into WISER, you can submit a New Course proposal. Course Change forms should be used to change any aspect of an active or inactive course. There is no need to file a course reactivation form if you are submitting a change to an inactive course. The course will automatically be reactivated along with the approved change. Course Reactivation forms should be used to reactivate an inactive course. You cannot propose any changes to the course with a reactivation proposal. The course will be reactivated in the exact form that it was last offered in. If you are looking to make any changes to the inactive course, you must use a Course Change form. In such cases, the Course Change form will reactivate the form. There are three types of General Education actions associated with UGRD courses. In all three cases, two different forms are required in Curriculog (uc5, plus one of the following: uc1, uc2, or uc3). Please consult the Chair of the Faculty Council General Education Committee to facilitate coordinated timing to ensure a smooth process. If You Would Like Assistance with Using Curriculog The following Curriculog Committee and Curriculog Working Group members, and Provost Office staff, are available to answer questions and help guide users of Curriculog. Curriculog Committee or Working Group Member Curriculog Expertise Email Stem Campus Phone Karen Delaney, Associate Registrar Curriculog administration Karen.Delaney 6217 Catalin Zara, Professor, Mathematics College level Catalin.Zara 6463 Neal Bruss, Chair of Faculty Council General Education Committee General Education Neal.Bruss 6713 Louise Putnam, Executive Assistant to the Dean of CLA College governance and Curriculog administration Louise.Putnam 6505 Andrew Perumal, Associate Provost Provost governance Andrew.Perumal 6957 Sarah Hamblin, Associate Professor, English CLA governance Sarah.Hamblin 6700 Laura Bozeman, Professor, Vision Studies SGISD governance and Graduate Studies Committee Laura.Bozeman 4385 Priscilla Gazarian, Associate Professor, Nursing CNHS governance and Graduate Studies Committee Priscilla.Gazarian 7872 Janna Kellinger, Associate Professor, Curriculum & Instruction CEHD governance Janna.Kellinger 5972 José Martinez-Reyes, Associate Professor, Anthropology General Education Jose.Martinez-Reyes 4871 Brian White, Associate Professor, Biology CSM governance Brian.White 6630 Luis De León, Assistant Professor, Biology General Education Luis.DeLeonReyna 7262 General Education Resources General Education Plan , 1997 (the Yellow Document) Implementation Plan for General Education , 2002 (the Purple Document) Quantitative Reasoning Requirements , 1997 (the QR Plan) Distribution Requirements Criteria , 2006 (the Tan Document) Diversity Requirements Guidelines , 2019 (the Diversity Requirements) e course change and program change proposals into categories of superficial and substantial. More details on this are located in the Curriculog Proposal Guidelines below. Proposals in process will not be affected by the updates. This page will be updated with the new forms as soon as they become available. Introduction to Curriculog The Curriculog software is a workflow system that is available for all curriculum governance processes at the university. Major benefits of Curriculog include substantial time reduction for faculty in administrative work; a single location for faculty to initiate and perform governance, proposal, and review actions; the ability for all faculty to view all curriculum governance processes; and accuracy in transporting information about courses directly into curriculum governance proposals since Curriculog is linked with the course catalogue system. This increases transparency in shared governance and obviates faculty having to track down lost proposals. In addition, since issues addressed at each step are documented, successive steps are facilitated by access to that documentation. Faculty can view examples of similar completed proposals, which is especially helpful when faculty are new to the process. Curriculog is part of the ongoing building of transparent tools that are designed to improve the quality of work life and effectiveness of support systems throughout Academic Affairs. Contents of this page: Below are reference guides created by the UMass Boston Curriculog Committee (administrative) and by the Curriculog Working Group (faculty), the link to access Curriculog , guidance prepared by the Curriculog Working Group on common curriculum governance actions , a list of which form to use for what purpose , and at the end, contact information for Curriculog Committee and Working Group members who are available for assistance , and General Education reference documents . Curriculog Reference Guides How to sign in, start, and launch a new proposal in Curriculog How to edit and approve a proposal in Curriculog Curriculog Proposal Guidelines (August 2022) , supported by Faculty Council and approved by Provost in May 2022, updated in August 2022 to correspond to new Curriculog forms for AY 22-23 Overview of Curriculum Governance Levels (May 2022), supported by Faculty Council and approved by Provost Curriculog FAQs , thanks to the Curriculog Working Group Accessing Curriculog Log in to Curriculog using your UMass Boston log-in and password Guidance on Common Actions Proposing a new undergraduate course Proposing a new graduate course Superficial updates to an existing undergraduate or graduate course Substantial updates to an existing undergraduate course Substantial updates to an existing graduate course Superficial updates to an undergraduate or graduate program Substantial updates to an undergraduate program Substantial updates to a graduate program Proposing a new undergraduate or graduate program Which Form to Use? If you want to... then use this form... Course Actions Undergrad form Graduate form Make a substantial change to a course; most course changes are substantial (see list under uc2/gc2 for what counts as a superficial course change) uc1 UGRD Course Change - Substantial gc1 GRAD Course Change - Substantial Make a superficial change to a course that does not alter students' experience of the course - includes changing a course number (when first digit stays the same), and line edits to short course title, long course title, and/or course description; generally this is to correct typos or make clarifications or slight corrections to course descriptions; superficial changes undergo an abbreviated process of governance review uc2 UGRD Course Change - Superficial gc2 GRAD Course Change - Superficial Propose a new course uc3 UGRD Course - New gc3 GRAD Course - New Reactivate an undergraduate course that is currently inactive; if you are updating an inactive course, you only need to use uc1 or uc2, the course will be reactivated as part of the approval of the updates uc4 UGRD Course - Reactivation gc4 GRAD Course - Reactivation Add a General Education area(s) to an undergraduate course: Distribution, Diversity, Seminar, QR, Capstone * If submitting a proposal for a new course (uc3) that also has a Gen Ed designation, uc5 must also be submitted. * If updating an existing course (uc1 or uc2) and adding a Gen Ed designation, uc5 must also be submitted. * If recognizing a Gen Ed designation in an existing course without modifying the course other than updating the course description to specify the Gen Ed designation (uc2), uc5 must also be submitted. uc5 UGRD Course - Add General Education N/A Program Actions Undergrad form Graduate form Make a substantial change to a program; most program changes are substantial (see list under up2/gp2 for what counts as a superficial program change). Use forms up1 or gp1 for substantial changes to any programs, including undergraduate degrees, majors, minors, tracks, concentrations, options or certificates; and PhD or master's degrees, graduate certificates, tracks, concentrations, or options within a graduate degree or certificate. up1 UGRD Program Change - Substantial gp1 GRAD Program Change - Substantial Make a superficial change to a program that does not alter students' experience of the program. This corresponds to the former "degree audit update). The most common two types of change that this form is used for are to add courses (which already exist) to an existing program, and to change aspects of an elective option as long as the changes do not impact the fundamental program structure or requirements. up2 UGRD Program Change - Superficial gp2 UGRD Program Change - Superficial Propose a new undergraduate or graduate program. These requests have off-campus review steps. For undergraduate programs, use this form if you are proposing a new undergraduate degree or major, or an undergraduate certificate of 30 credits or more. For graduate programs, use this form if you are proposing a new doctorate or master's degree program, or a graduate certificate of 30 credits or more. up3 UGRD New Degree, Major, or Certificate > or = 30 cr gp3 GRAD New Doctorate, Master's, or Certificate > or = 30 cr Propose a new undergraduate minor, concentration, track, or certificate of less then 30 credits; or propose a new graduate track, option, or certificate of less than 30 credits. These requests typically do not have off-campus review steps. up4 UGRD New Minor, Concentration, Track, or Certificate < 30 cr gp4 GRAD New Track, Option, or Certificate < 30 cr Reactivate an undergraduate or graduate program that was previously suspended. up5 UGRD Program Reactivation gp5 GRAD Program Reactivation Suspend or terminate an existing undergraduate or graduate program. up6 UGRD Program Termination or Suspension gp6 GRAD Program Termination or Suspension Non-Course and Non-Program Actions Form to use Form to use Create a new or change an existing non-credit undergraduate or graduate course nc1 UNIV Noncredit Course nc1 UNIV Noncredit Course Create a new or change an existing non-credit undergraduate or graduate program nc2 UNIV Noncredit Program nc2 UNIV Noncredit Program Add a new course subject that currently does not exist in WISER s1 UNIV New Course Subject s1 UNIV New Course Subject If you would like to update/change committee members, please email Janette White (Janette.White) in the Provost's Office to obtain a link to a Qualtrics form to fill out with updated information. Contact Janette White Contact Janette White Additional Notes New Course forms should be used for proposing new courses within existing subjects. If the subject does not yet exist in WISER, use a New Course Subject form first. Once the subject is approved and entered into WISER, you can submit a New Course proposal. Course Change forms should be used to change any aspect of an active or inactive course. There is no need to file a course reactivation form if you are submitting a change to an inactive course. The course will automatically be reactivated along with the approved change. Course Reactivation forms should be used to reactivate an inactive course. You cannot propose any changes to the course with a reactivation proposal. The course will be reactivated in the exact form that it was last offered in. If you are looking to make any changes to the inactive course, you must use a Course Change form. In such cases, the Course Change form will reactivate the form. There are three types of General Education actions associated with UGRD courses. In all three cases, two different forms are required in Curriculog (uc5, plus one of the following: uc1, uc2, or uc3). Please consult the Chair of the Faculty Council General Education Committee to facilitate coordinated timing to ensure a smooth process. If You Would Like Assistance with Using Curriculog The following Curriculog Committee and Curriculog Working Group members, and Provost Office staff, are available to answer questions and help guide users of Curriculog. Curriculog Committee or Working Group Member Curriculog Expertise Email Stem Campus Phone Karen Delaney, Associate Registrar Curriculog administration Karen.Delaney 6217 Catalin Zara, Professor, Mathematics College level Catalin.Zara 6463 Neal Bruss, Chair of Faculty Council General Education Committee General Education Neal.Bruss 6713 Louise Putnam, Executive Assistant to the Dean of CLA College governance and Curriculog administration Louise.Putnam 6505 Andrew Perumal, Associate Provost Provost governance Andrew.Perumal 6957 Sarah Hamblin, Associate Professor, English CLA governance Sarah.Hamblin 6700 Laura Bozeman, Professor, Vision Studies SGISD governance and Graduate Studies Committee Laura.Bozeman 4385 Priscilla Gazarian, Associate Professor, Nursing CNHS governance and Graduate Studies Committee Priscilla.Gazarian 7872 Janna Kellinger, Associate Professor, Curriculum & Instruction CEHD governance Janna.Kellinger 5972 José Martinez-Reyes, Associate Professor, Anthropology General Education Jose.Martinez-Reyes 4871 Brian White, Associate Professor, Biology CSM governance Brian.White 6630 Luis De León, Assistant Professor, Biology General Education Luis.DeLeonReyna 7262 General Education Resources General Education Plan , 1997 (the Yellow Document) Implementation Plan for General Education , 2002 (the Purple Document) Quantitative Reasoning Requirements , 1997 (the QR Plan) Distribution Requirements Criteria , 2006 (the Tan Document) Diversity Requirements Guidelines , 2019 (the Diversity Requirements) Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms