Services - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration Services Menu menu Menu Public Programs Research Services Staff Teaching & Training Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Initiatives Services MOPC deploys a range of proven collaborative methodologies to assist government entities and members of the public with problem-solving and the resolution of disputes. Services are delivered by MOPC staff, qualified affiliate practitioners and state-funded community mediation centers. MOPC ensures that services delivered under its auspices adhere to best practices and principles for successful collaboration including inclusiveness of participation, transparency of decision-making and shared responsibility for process and outcome. Public agencies can engage MOPC without the need to deploy a competitive procurement process. Conflict Assessment Process conducted by a neutral skilled in assessing disputes and convening stakeholders to collaborate. Helps stakeholders to determine whether an issue is appropriate for dispute resolution or consensus building. Provides the opportunity to clarify issues, design an appropriate problem-solving process, decide who should participate, and determine the costs involved. Consensus-Building Collaborative negotiation process that helps stakeholders with diverse or competing interests to problem-solve and reach agreement. Neutral facilitators assess the issues and interests; assists public agencies as sponsors and conveners in defining the stakeholders and inviting them to the table; designing the ground rules and meeting structures; facilitating discussions; and drafting agreements; engaging the public. Results in policies and projects with wide support and reduces likelihood for divisiveness and legal challenges. Deliberative Dialogue Structured public discussion forums led by trained moderators that range from small study circles held in peoples’ homes to large community gatherings. Uses nonpartisan issue guides that outline several possible ways to address a problem. Participants deliberate together to explore options, weigh pros and cons, hear each other’s views, and identify common ground. Results may influence public policies formulation. Mediation Assisted negotiation process facilitated by a trained neutral who helps parties in conflict create their own resolution. Participation is voluntary and confidential and decision-making is based on informed consent. Mediator meets with the parties to explore issues, relationships, and possible solutions. Mediated agreements are binding by mutual consent of the parties. Program Design Helps organizations develop policies and programs to better manage systemic or recurring conflicts and promote collaborative problem-solving, internally, and externally. Provides expert consultation on development of goals, objectives, evaluation, and performance measures for conflict management programs. Involves reviewing relevant legislation and regulations; assessing organizational systems and stakeholder interests; creating a design that fits the larger organizational culture and motivates people to use dispute resolution; facilitating participatory design process; preparing policies, procedures, and forms; training neutrals; orienting on how to effectively use the program. Training & Capacity Building Skill-building workshops, including conflict resolution, negotiation, mediation, facilitation, consensus-building, violence prevention, public deliberation, and community engagement. Integrates theory and practice; deploys role-play exercises in a safe learning environment. Off-the-shelf or custom-designed through needs assessment focus groups, surveys, interviews. Provides opportunities to learn skills to help participants handle conflicts within organizations. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms