School for Global Inclusion & Social Development - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Home Education School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Menu menu Menu Research & Engagement Academic Departments School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Programs People Find Funding Careers Coverdell Fellows Program Peace Corps Prep Program The Asian American Studies Program Community Inclusion Institute For New England Native American Studies Student Success Scholarships & Financial Support Alumni Spotlight Faculty & Staff Dean's Office Ending Exclusion, Advancing Human Rights In our interconnected world, it is more important than ever for global policy organizations, governments, and communities to apply principles of global inclusion to ensure social development for all, and to help dismantle exclusion and oppression. Global inclusion practices seek to ensure that everyone can participate in the social, economic, cultural, political, and civil aspects of their communities. Social development is a process of improving human and collective well-being through interventions in social policy, public policy, service delivery, and nonprofit activity at several levels: micro (individuals and families), mezzo (agencies and neighborhoods), and macro (larger communities, governments, and nations). Graduate Programs Global Inclusion and Social Development (MA) Global Inclusion and Social Development (PhD) Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Vision Studies (MEd) Certificate Programs Human Rights Certification Rehabilitation Counseling Certification Transition Leadership Certification Vision Rehabilitation Therapy Certificate Vision Studies: Orientation & Mobility Certificate Assistive Technology for Individuals with Visual Impairments Certificate Cortical/Cerebral Visual Impairment Certificate Accelerated Master’s Programs (AMP) Earn a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in Global Inclusion & Social Development or Rehabilitation Counseling. Explore Accelerated Master's Programs Coverdell Fellowship Our Coverdell Fellows Program offers incentives to returned Peace Corps volunteers to apply to programs in our graduate school. Learn about the Coverdell Fellowship Peace Corps Prep Our Peace Corps Prep program supports undergraduates across all UMass Boston departments to build skills for international volunteering and car Learn about Peace Corps Prep Why Global Inclusion? Our Mission Empowering communities locally, nationally, and internationally to advance wellness, educational access, economic participation, and social opportunities for all people by developing leaders, building knowledge, and demonstrating real-world innovations that embrace inclusion. To achieve this mission, SGISD faculty, students, and staff make the following commitments: To undertake work that creates social change and promotes human rights and justice for individuals who are excluded from their community because of their race, ethnicity, gender, disability, sexual orientation, religion, or other factors. To recognize that this work requires advocating for and defending the rights of all individuals. To recognize that social change is more effective when it is achieved through partnerships between excluded individuals and experts from various disciplines, all approaching inclusion from unique perspectives. Effective collaboration is based on mutual learning and respect, and requires collegiality and collective intelligence. To focus the activities of SGISD on empowering individuals to define their own quality of life and realize their full potential. To ground all the activities of SGISD in transdisciplinary education, training, research, and service. All these elements combine to apply theory and evidence-based research to practice. The knowledge the school produces is translated and disseminated to all communities affected by the issues in question. Goals & Commitments As the United States and the world wrestle with the impact of systemic racism and pervasive inequities, we must do our part to ensure we are dismantling, versus perpetuating, this oppression and injustice. We are committed to being anti-racist and justice-oriented as a school and to ensure that we reflect our mission, and are providing students with an experience where they can flourish, develop the tools they need to make an impact, and work toward their goals for change. SGISD uses a transdisciplinary approach that allows us to acknowledge and examine the intersectional nature of this commitment across different areas of study, populations, communities, and research and practice. Our goal is for students committed to global inclusion and social development to apply their experiences and knowledge to areas of policy and practice, using an equity- and justice-oriented inclusive lens. Their efforts and leadership will create a more socially cohesive and sustainable society, supporting the dignity, human rights, and responsibilities of all its members. We are committed to our community, and to developing programs that meet the needs of our students, whom we attract from all over the world, whether they are seeking a graduate degree or a certificate program. We offer a range of options such as a focus on human rights, engagement with our Asian American Studies Program, or our research institutes: the Institute for Community Inclusion and the Institute for New England Native American Studies. UMass Boston is also proud to be an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institution (AANAPISI). SGISD’s Asian American Studies faculty have a key role in the University’s AANAPISI efforts and are national leaders in approaches and practices designed to meet the needs of our Asian American students and communities. Human Rights at UMass Boston Explore human rights academic offerings and UMass Boston faculty, students, and researchers working in the field of global human rights. Institute for Community Inclusion (ICI) The Institute for Community Inclusion is a research and training center that promotes the full inclusion of people with disabilities. Institute for New England Native American Studies (INENAS) INENAS develops collaborative relationships, projects, and programs between Native tribes of New England. Asian American Studies Program Program combines culturally responsive classroom instruction with mentoring, community-building, service-learning, and advocacy. Explore Faculty & Staff Graduate Student Profiles Careers Find Funding Contact Us Carl Sidney Program Coordinator for the School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Email Carl Sidney School for Global Inclusion and Social Development in the College of Education and Human Development Phone: (617) 287-3070 Email Global Inclusion UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms