Employment - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services Employment Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services Arrival Glossary of Terms UMass VIP Employment Stem Opt Current Students Frequently Asked Questions Visa Interview Tips International Exchange Students Global Ambassadors Current Student Resources Staff Giving Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Employment On Campus Work Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Optional Practical Training (OPT) J-1 Scholar Services H-1B Cap Gap Social Security Numbers & Cards Download Your Electronic I-94 Card J-1 Students Obtaining a Social Security Number (SSN) You will need to obtain a Social Security Number in order to be paid by an employer. This is a nine-digit number that is needed by the employer to report your wages to the government. To obtain a Social Security Number international students must complete the Request for Social Security Eligibility Letter Form . You will bring this form and the Employment Verification Form to the Social Security Administration (SSA) office nearest you. To find the closest office, visit the Social Security Administration website . Bring all of your original immigration documents with you to the SSA office , including a print out of your electronic I-94 card . On Campus Employment F-1 students are permitted to work part time, up to 20 hours per week, on campus during the semester. During school breaks, F-1 students can work full time, up to 40 hours per week, on campus. On-campus employment does not require any extra permission from ISSS. PLEASE NOTE: F-1 international students are not eligible for federally funded “work study” positions. Federal assistance of this nature is only granted to U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents. J1 Students Students holding J-1 visa status may work in the United States, both on and off-campus, but may only do so with written permission from their visa sponsor. The following information describes policies and procedures for individuals who have J-1 visa sponsorship from the University of Massachusetts Boston (the DS-2019 must have been issued by UMass). If your visa sponsor is not UMass - for example, IIE - you must obtain authorization directly from that sponsor. Our office cannot authorize employment for any student not sponsored by UMass. The J-1 student must obtain a new Form DS-2019 from the International Students and Scholars Office prior to participating in ANY off-campus work. There are three general categories of J-1 employment: On-Campus Employment Students may work anywhere on the UMass campus. Employment is limited to 20 hours per week (including assistantships) while school is in session, 40 hours a week during vacation periods. Off-Campus Employment based on unanticipated economic necessity This authorization is given to students who find themselves in unforeseen economic hardship. Employment is limited to 20 hours per week (including assistantships) while school is in session, 40 hours a week during vacation periods. Academic Training Academic Training (AT) is defined as work experience directly related to your academic program at UMass. J-1 Students must have a job offer letter to work off-campus. The job must be in the student's field of study. Total time of Academic Training can never exceed the time spent in full course of study The maximum a J-1 Bachelor’s or Master’s student can do of Academic Training is 18 months The J-1 Student can apply for pre-completion academic training, after having been in full-time status for one academic year Academic training application for post-completion work, must be processed by the International Students and Scholars Office no later than 30 days after the student’s completion date. Undergraduate and graduate students (not doctoral students) can engage in up to 18 months of academic training, or no more than the length of time of the course of study, whichever is less. A J-1 PhD student can apply for an initial 18-month period of post-completion academic training through the International Students and Scholars Office by presenting a job offer letter. The student can then later apply for an additional period of 18 months. Training can not exceed a total of 36 months total. All academic training is counted as full time, even if employment is on a part-time basis. Completion date is determined as the date that all degree requirements are met by the student (which is not necessarily the same as the Commencement Date, degree conferral date, or the date that the degree clearance form is submitted). Please contact the International Students and Scholars Office within three months of completing your program to be sure you understand the process. We don’t want you to jeopardize losing your eligibility for post completion work authorization. J-1 students must continue to comply with the J-1 health insurance requirements throughout their Academic Training period. J-1 visa holders are required, as a condition of their J-1 status in the United States, to carry health insurance for themselves and accompanying family members (J-2 visa holders). By government regulation the J-1 & J-2 visa holders must carry minimum coverage in the amount of: $100,000  per accident or illness; A deductible not to exceed $500 per accident or illness At least $50,000 for Medical Evacuation to the home country At least $25,000 for repatriation of remains If the J-1 Student is subject to the Two-Year foreign residence requirement, student is expected to return home for a two-year period either at the completion of their academic program or at the end of their post-completion academic training period. Students subject to the Two-Year Foreign Residence Requirement will not qualify to apply for H-1B status. For Exchange Students Only You must apply for your AT before the last day of final exams; you may only be authorized a period of AT equivalent to the period of your exchange program at UMass; and you must present a letter from your home university confirming that the proposed job is related to your field of studies and recommending that you be allowed to accept this opportunity. Time Limitations AT may be undertaken either during or after your program of study (or both). In general, AT may be authorized for a maximum of 18 months, or a period equal to the program of study, whichever is less. The only exception is for students who complete a doctoral degree and plan to pursue post-doctoral training under the supervision of an academic institution. In this case, a maximum period of 36 months is permitted. Note that these time limits are cumulative, meaning that any AT conducted prior to the completion of study will be deducted from the allowable time and only months remaining may be used following the completion of a degree. Part-time/Full-time In general, AT may only be conducted part-time during the school year, full-time during vacation periods. Exceptions include: Graduate students who have completed all coursework for the degree and plan to conduct ATR that will assist them in the development of their thesis/dissertation; Undergraduate students who conduct internships that are required of their program or for which they will receive credit. OPT (Optional Practical Training) Optional Practical Training (OPT) is a 12 month period available to F-1 students for each degree level they complete in the United States. This may be taken while the student is still studying, but is more commonly taken after graduation as "Post Completion OPT." OPT FAQs: I will graduate this semester. When can I apply for OPT? The earliest you can apply for OPT in your final semester is 90 days before your Program End date (found on your Form I-20). The latest you can apply is 60 days after your Program End date, at the end of your grace period. I want to apply, what do I do? All students applying for OPT are required to read all of the OPT Guide.  In reading the OPT Guide, you will find details on the OPT process, regulations, and guidance on how to fill out the application. ISSS will not process your OPT application if you do not read the OPT Guide. You must pass the e-quiz with a score of 100% to access the application. When will I start my OPT? You will choose a start date for your 12 months of OPT employment. This start date can be any day within your 60-day grace period. Keep in mind that it can take USCIS 90 days to process your application and you will not be able to begin work until your OPT is approved and you have received your Employment Authorization Card (EAD) in the mail. How much OPT time can I apply for? You are allowed a total of 12 months of full-time OPT per degree level. I don’t have a job yet. Can I still apply for OPT? A job offer is not required to apply for OPT but all employment undertaken while on OPT must be directly related to your field of study. I want to use OPT time before completing my degree. When can I apply? You may apply for periods of pre-completion OPT during school terms and summer vacation. You may apply for part-time (20 hours or less a week) pre-completion OPT while school is in session and full-time pre-completion OPT during annual summer vacation periods. I’m graduating and will be applying for post-completion OPT. If I have used pre-completion OPT during my studies, how do I know how much OPT time I have remaining? Any periods of OPT used before completion of studies will be deducted from the total twelve-month period available.  Example: Full-time employment for two months during a summer vacation would leave a student with only ten months of OPT available after graduation. Your HIO advisor can assist in determining how much remaining OPT time you have available. I graduated and left the United States. Am I still eligible to apply for post-completion OPT? If you depart the U.S. upon graduation without applying for OPT, you will lose your OPT eligibility. My family is here on F-2 visas, is there anything additional I need to do for them? Your dependents will receive updated I-20s from the HIO to reflect your requested OPT employment dates. There is no additional cost or paperwork needed for the OPT application for those students who have dependents. Will I be eligible for OPT again if I begin another degree program in the U.S? Students may become eligible for another twelve months of OPT when they change to a higher educational level. However, simply beginning another degree program does not automatically confer this eligibility. Curricular Practical Training (CPT) General Overview: CPT must be an “integral part of an established curriculum” and “directly related to the student’s major area of study.” This means that the training/job must be either required or the student must receive credit for the experience. Available only during the degree – prior to completion of the program. Students in English Language training are not eligible for CPT. Eligibility: After successful completion of one academic year of full-time study (fall/spring or spring/fall), 18 credits for grads/24 credits for undergrads completed, in good academic standing with no grades of “F” “INC” or “U”, or negative disciplinary or academic standing Duration: CPT is available for increments of up to one year at a time and there is no limit to the amount of CPT a student is allowed during their degree. If a student receives 12 months or more of full time CPT (more than 20 hours per week), they become ineligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT). Types of Employment: Curricular Training is any type of off-campus training for which the student is receiving credit (or that is required by the student’s academic curriculum). Students can be paid or unpaid for this experience as payment is not a determining factor for CPT. Because of the nature of CPT, the student must be working FOR a company or organization and cannot be self-employed (a real-estate agent, for example, is self-employed making this type of job opportunity unavailable during CPT). Oversight for the “training” is an essential component of CPT therefore working as an independent contractor is not a legitimate CPT opportunity. Click here to find the Government Regulations on CPT To apply, fill out the e-form for CPT through iStart! You can find the e-form here . During your application process, you may want to follow the CPT Application Checklist . CPT FAQ's Do I need a new I-20 before starting off-campus employment, including CPT? ALWAYS! Any time worked off-campus prior to the issuance of a new Form I-20 authorizing the job experience will be an automatic cause for termination. How many credits do I have to register for CPT? It varies, and depends on the type of CPT. Registration can range from 1-3 credits. This will be evaluated at the time you are considered for CPT authorization. Can I work full-time on CPT during an academic semester? Only if your department offers a full-time co-op option which would be available to all students in that academic program, as listed in the Course Catalog. Check with your Undergraduate or Graduate Academic Advisor to explore co-op opportunities within your program. All such programs have a selection process, with specific course sequencing and preparatory coursework Can I work full-time on CPT during a summer session? Yes, in MOST cases! However, you can do so only with the issuance of a CPT Form I-20, and never in your last summer session. Can I work part-time during a regular semester? Yes, but not in your last semester, and only with the issuance of a CPT Form I-20. H-1B Cap Gap About the Cap Gap H-1B is a work visa that is sponsored by an employer. Students commonly transition from Optional Practical Training (OPT) authorization, a benefit of the F-1 visa, to H-1B status. There are a limited number of H-1Bs available each fiscal year, for most employers, and this limit is often referred to as the "H-1B Cap." New H-1Bs become effective each year on October 1, but the application period for most employers begins six months earlier, on April 1. The "cap gap" occurs when a student's F-1 status and/or OPT expires before their approved H-1B begins October 1. The Cap Gap Extension The H-1B Cap Gap Extension allows certain students with pending or approved H-1B petitions to remain in the U.S. in F-1 status until the start date of their approved H-1B employment period, October 1, even if the OPT authorization and/or F-1 grace period would have otherwise expired before October 1. H-1B Cap Gap Frequently Asked Questions Can the cap gap extension of OPT be extended beyond September 30 if my H-1B petition is still pending? No, the cap gap extension is only until September 30. If the H-1B petition is pending beyond October 1, you can remain in the U.S. based on the pending change of status petition. However, you must stop working until the H-1B petition is approved. Will I receive personal notification of my cap gap extension? No, you will not receive automatic notification. You must be in close communication with your employer's immigration specialist so you know the status of your H-1B petition. When you are eligible for the cap gap extension, you must contact email an ISSS advisor if you want documentation of the extension. What happens if my H-1B petition is rejected, denied, or revoked? You will have a 60-day grace period from the date of the notification of the denial, rejection, or revocation, during which time you can make preparations to depart the U.S., transfer to another full-time degree program, or change visa status. Can I travel outside the U.S. during a cap gap extension period and return in F-1 status? ISSS recommends that you consult with your employer's immigration specialist before traveling internationally during the cap gap extension period. Does the 90-day unemployment limit apply during the cap gap extension period? Yes, the 90-day unemployment limit continues during the cap gap extension period. Can I apply for the 24-month STEM OPT extension while I'm within a period of cap gap extension? Yes, you can apply for the 17-month OPT extension during the cap gap extension of OPT. However, you must ensure that your employer requests the withdrawal of the approved or pending H-1B petition in time for USCIS to officially accept the withdrawal prior to October 1-otherwise, your H-1B will begin October 1, which cancels your eligibility for the 17-month OPT extension. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms