Student IT Services Toolbox - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Help Student IT Services Toolbox Menu menu Menu Help Student IT Services Toolbox Classroom Technology Toolbox Learningdesign Toolbox General IT Toolbox Research Computing Toolbox Backing Up New Faculty Resources Hub Chat IT Services Catalog Faq Forms Contact Help Us Help You Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Student IT Services Toolbox Student success starts with access to the right resources and tools. Connect with key resources that will help you thrive at UMass Boston and beyond. Access to resources begins with your UMass Boston account. Your UMass Boston Account Wifi Your Courses Collaboration Computers & Laptops Create & Learn Mobile App Residence Hall Student Jobs & Internships Need Technical Support? Your UMass Boston Account About your UMass Boston Account: Your UMass Boston account gives you access to essential university services including email, Wifi, the student registration system (WISER), the learning management programs (Blackboard & Canvas), video conferencing tools (Zoom), Healey Library services, and more . Your Email Address & Password: Access your UMass Boston email at webmail.umb.edu by logging in with your full email address (including@umb.edu), password and Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) sign-in method. Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) Requirement: MFA adds an extra layer of protection that requires an additional verification step in order to log in. Learn how to set up MFA on your account and be sure to set up an alternative phone call verification method to maintain access to your account. Manage Your Account Access: Visit the Password Management page to manage your password and MFA sign-in methods. Ensure that your password is strong by adhering to our provided password guidelines . Keep Your Account Secure! Never share your password or pins generated by the MFA account verification process: Protect yourself from Phishing Microsoft Office 365 Webmail UMass Boston provides Microsoft Office 365 Webmail to all faculty, staff, and students. Use your UMass Boston account information to login to your email. Your UMass Boston email is the official method of communication for the university. Log in to Webmail Wifi The Eduroam Network The official wireless network at UMass Boston is eduroam . Students, faculty and staff should use the eduroam wireless network for connecting computers, tablets and smartphones. Why the eduroam Network ? Eduroam is a fast, secure, and encrypted network, protecting your personal information while browsing, entering passwords, emailing, and more. How do I access the eduroam network? Select the “eduroam” network and log in with your full UMass Boston email address and password. Visit How to access the eduroam wifi network for details. Your Courses Access Course Information - WISER WISER is the student information system used by UMass Boston students, staff and faculty to manage courses, grades and student records. Students can use this system to register for courses, view current course schedules and grades. Visit the WISER FAQ to access the log in page and find answers to common questions. Access Your Courses - Blackboard & Canvas Students can access class materials, participate in discussions, submit assignments, and complete related coursework online. Most courses at UMass Boston use Blackboard or Canvas, both of which are Learning Management Systems (LMS). Your instructor will inform you which platform is being used. Visit the following pages for login information and helpful resources. Blackboard: Visit the Blackboard Orientation for Students page. Canvas: Visit the Canvas Student Resources page. Collaboration Microsoft Office 365 Microsoft Office 365 Webmail, gives you access to the entire Office 365 suite to help manage projects. Access the entire Office 365 suite of programs, Calendar, Word, Excel and online file sharing with OneDrive. Microsoft Teams allows you to meet online in real time, with chat, audio, video, screen sharing and more. Download Microsoft Office 365 Google Workspace Google Workspace is a suite of programs that help you easily collaborate with others. It includes Google Drive, Google Docs, Sheets, Jamboard (collaborative whiteboard), Forms, Calendar and more. UMass Boston provides Google Workspace to all faculty, staff, and students. Be sure to use your UMass Boston account information to login. Log in to Google Workspace Zoom Zoom is a web conferencing application which allows you to meet others online, with video, audio, screensharing, chat and more. UMass Boston provides Zoom access to all faculty, staff and students. Use your UMass Boston account information to login. New users will need to activate their accounts using the same login page. Visit Zoom for Students to get started. Computers and Laptops Purchasing UMass Boston students can take advantage of discounts on a wide array of products, desktop computers, tablet computers, laptops and more, from Dell. Discounts for Students Borrowing As long as supplies last, you can borrow a Chromebook from IT Services. Just return it by the end of the semester, or sooner if you no longer use it so we can loan it out to other students in waiting.  Return the Chromebook to the Healey Library Circulation desk, 2nd floor. Request a Chromebook Computer Labs Computer labs are available to students who need access to a public computer. Most computers have applications that support video production, audio production, digital photography, graphic design, animation, applications for statistical analysis and more. Computer labs are available on a walk-in basis, while some are reserved for classes. Computer Labs Information Printing WEPA printing kiosks Print documents using your laptop, lab computer or mobile device using a fleet of 30 WEPA student printing kiosks located around campus and in the residence hall. UMass Boston offers $15 of free print credits to enrolled students per semester. If you run out of free credits, you can pay for prints with BeaconBucks, credit card and other options. Print on Campus Create & Learn Software UMass Boston students can obtain a range of software products for free or at a significant discount. Available software includes Microsoft Windows 10 operating system, Microsoft Office 365, Qualtrics, Mathematica, and more. UMass Boston IT Licensed Software MakerSpace MakerSpace is a space where you can conceptualize and create simple or complex virtual and physical objects. The lab is equipped with 3D printers and scanners, VR, AR and engineering equipment, dedicated desktops and associated software. Staff are available to consult with you about your university-related projects. UMass Boston's Makerspace WordPress WordPress is the leading content management system (CMS) powering nearly half of the internet. The UMass Boston Sites Network provides an easy way to get your content online, no matter what type of website you need. Highly customizable, WordPress can be used for many applications, from blogging to online portfolios, as well as full-blown websites. UMass Boston Sites Network LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning is an online platform that offers tutorials and full courses on how to use many popular programs, such as Microsoft Excel, P, building websites and more. Also learn soft skills and boost productivity with your courses and your career. Choose from 16,000+ courses on a wide variety of topics, with dozens added each week. Access LinkedIn Learning Mobile App The new UMass Boston Mobile App is here! Completely redesigned based on student feedback, the app is the fastest way to access some of the most important campuses services. Download the UMass Boston Mobile App Residence Hall Residence Hall Wifi All residence floors have Wifi! Log into Eduroam, the same Wifi network name you see all over campus. Res Hall Wifi isn't supported through the main IT Service desk, instead, talk to Res Hall Staff about problems with Wifi in the Res Hall buildings, and they will direct you to how to get help. Residence Hall Tech Support 24/7 technical support for dorm residents is available from Single Digits at: 855-890-9546 Residence Hall Student Printing Both Residence Halls have printers available for residents, located on the first floor of each building. Student Jobs and Internships UMass Boston offers employment opportunities to students to enhance their academic experience in a supportive setting. Students gain valuable skills, have flexible working hours, and perform work that may relate to a future career. Student Jobs in IT Need Technical Support? Reach out to the IT Service Desk Get tech support from the IT Service Desk. IT Support Live Chat ITServiceDesk@umb.edu or 617.287.5220 Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms