Upward Bound - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Upward Bound Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Upward Bound Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Talent Search Program Upward Bound Alumni Application Eligibility Employment Staff Upward Bound Math-Science Urban Scholars Directions for Student Potential Pathways & Multilingual Programs English Language Program Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Upward Bound Upward Bound is an intensive, year-round college-preparatory program. Our mission is to assist low-income, first-generation college bound high school students in the successful completion of secondary education and prepare them academically and socially for enrollment and completion of higher education. This is accomplished by providing participants with rigorous and nurturing academic courses; tutoring services; college-preparatory workshops; academic, college, and financial aid advising; career exploration; leadership opportunities; and cultural enrichment. Upward Bound offers services to students through an after-school program and monthly cohort meetings at UMass Boston during the school year and a six-week residential academic program at a different college or university campus during the summer. About the Program Since 1966, the UMass Boston Upward Bound Program has enjoyed continuous funding, making it one of the oldest existing Upward Bound programs in the country. We work with over 120 high school students each year enrolled at four high schools in the Boston Public Schools system: Jeremiah E. Burke, Excel, Madison Park, and Dearborn STEM Academy. Understanding the financial needs of our target population, Upward Bound provides students with a small monthly stipend during the academic year and the summer session. On average, 98 percent of the program's graduates are accepted to at least one postsecondary educational institution annually. Our students attend our residential academic program during the summer and engage in programming after-school and monthly cohort meetings during the school year. Summer Program The Upward Bound academic residential summer program is an intensive six week endeavor which gives all Upward Bound students a chance to experience college life while learning relevant, hands-on material in their daily courses. All students take four academic classes in English, Math, Science, and an elective course in world language or skill-building (Financial or Media Literacy). After classes, students have a chance to finish all their homework with the help of tutors during our supervised study hall period. In the afternoon, students participate in a variety of physical activities. We have access to basketball courts, beach volleyball courts, soccer fields, and a dance studio and students engage in many activities including yoga, football, basketball, soccer, frisbee, improvisation, and playground games. In the evenings, students participate in cultural/creative arts workshops. Workshop options include:  cooking, digital yearbook, socially conscious hip hop, nature activities, dance, theater, journalism, community activism and more. We offer a series of fun and educational field trips throughout the summer. We also offer a variety of social activities each week, including Field Day, Spirit Week, Trivia Competitions, Dances, Karaoke, Open Mic, Kickball Games, Cookouts, and Talent Shows. All students live with a roommate of their choice and eat their meals in a dining hall. Six Reasons to Attend Upward Bound Six Week Residential Summer Program: Relevant, Hands-on Learning Experience "Dorm Life" College Counselling Academic Edge over Your Peers Workshops, Sports, & Field Trips Independence! Academic Year During the academic year students participate in a minimum of four hours of tutoring per week. Our tutors are current college students or recent grads, who support the high school youth both academically and through social mentorship. Students also participate in a monthly cohort meeting, during which they are able to form close bonds with peers at their grade level and engage with content relevant to youth at their age. Additionally students have the opportunity participate in day field trips like ice skating and laser tag, attend overnight tours like the New England Student Leadership Conference, and visit colleges both in state and out of state. In the students' junior and senior years, they work closely with the college counselor to plan their postsecondary future. If you have a question or want to make a comment, email the Upward Bound Program Office Location Upward Bound Program McCormack Hall, 3rd Floor, Room 704 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone: 617-287-5845 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms