Adaptive Computer Lab - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Adaptive Computer Lab (ACL) Home Information Technology Hardware & Labs Adaptive Computer Lab Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Hardware Purchase Request A Computer Get IT Equipment Loaners Repair Adaptive Computer Lab Resources Services Evaluation, Training & Support Technology Labs Print Surplus Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology About the Adaptive Computer Lab The mission of the Adaptive Computer Lab (ACL) is to educate the university community about adaptive technology and support and promote its use on campus. The ACL is committed to increasing opportunities and access through the use of technology for individuals with disabilities. As you can tell from this map, the ACL is located on the upper level of Healey Library, just off the elevators. What is Adaptive Technology? Adaptive technology (also called assistive technology) refers to any product, device, or equipment, which is used to maintain, increase, or improve the functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities. Summary of Services The Adaptive Computer Lab provides services for students, faculty, and staff with learning, vision, and mobility learning impairments. We train individuals with unique learning needs to use adaptive technology (AT) for reading, writing, studying, and information access. Services we provide to students, faculty, and staff: Evaluate needs for hardware and software, adaptations, training, and continued support Provide training in the use of hardware and software for individuals Staff and maintain a facility with all necessary hardware and software Provide continuing support and retraining Accommodate student exam taking ACL Summer 2024 Hours of Operation Please Note: All computer labs, except Library 4th Floor public use computers, are closed on the weekends. Summer 2024 Hours | May 28 - August 22 Monday - Friday: 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Saturday & Sunday: Closed Holidays | Closed Monday, May 27: Memorial Day Location The ACL is located on the upper level of Healey Library, room 031 Floor plan showing location of the Adaptive Computing lab. Take elevator to Healey UL. Contact Us Matt McCubbin Assistive Tech Specialist: Phone: 617.287.5227 ACLMgr@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms