About - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Uteach About Menu menu Menu About Core Classes Current Students Introductory Classes Alumni Become A Mentor Contact Faculty Staff About the Program In December 2014, UMass Boston became one of five universities selected to receive a $1.45 million, five-year grant to join the national UTeach network, launched in 1997 at the University of Texas at Austin to attract science and math majors into teaching careers. UTeach Boston is a STEM teacher education program intended specifically for undergraduate STEM majors.  As a UTeach student, you earn a degree in a STEM discipline (e.g. chemistry, math, biology) along with initial secondary licensure to teach in Massachusetts.  Students in the UTeach program teach in public schools around Boston starting with their first UTeach class .  All students in the College of Science and Mathematics can join UTeach to get certified to teach while completing their undergraduate degree. Students with high-performing teachers learn 5 to 6 more months' worth of content in one school year. Well-prepared teachers make a difference. ( Source:  The New Teacher Project) UTeach Boston's faculty are former high school STEM teachers who become clinical faculty at UMass Boston.  This means they have had the experience in teaching that they can use to help students in the UTeach program. The UTeach program is designed to: Develop deep conceptual understanding of subject area content Become proficient in research-based STEM teaching methods such as inquiry- and project-based education approaches Integrate content and pedagogy Apply education theory to teaching in the classroom Understand and address equity issues surrounding the classroom See the introductory classes of UTeach Boston. See the core classes of UTeach Boston. Contact us. UTeach Boston Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms