Camp Shriver - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Development & Education Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Menu menu Menu People Research & Evaluation Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Give Impact Report, Mission, Model & Evaluation Summer Stars Saturday Camp Staff and Volunteers Boston Marathon Team TCS New York City Marathon Team International Marathons and Premier Race Events Thrive for Shriver Challenge Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner Media Packet And Publications Best Practices for Inclusive Camps Center Academics Camp Shriver A Free Inclusive Summer Camp for Children with and without Disabilities Camp Shriver applications for the summer of 2024 are now closed. Families will be notified of lottery results before May 15. Camp Shriver will run from Monday, July 8 to Friday August, 2, 2024 . Camp Shriver is a day camp, operating Monday through Friday from 8:30 AM - 2:00 PM on the UMass Amherst Mount Ida Campus in Newton MA. (Transportation is provided from local area schools, schedule and pick-up locations to be finalized after acceptance.) We accept applications from boys and girls who are  8-12 years old and entering grades 3, 4, 5, and 6. Admission is by lottery; all applicants will be notified of acceptance or waitlist status by mid May 2023. There is a $25 registration fee for accepted applicants only , to be collected once accepted. Staff & Volunteering at Camp Shriver Staff applications for 2024 are now open! Camp Shriver is... For boys and girls, ages 8‐12 and entering grades 3, 4, 5, and 6 in the fall FREE (after a $25 registration fee only for accepted campers) Includes FREE breakfast, lunch ,* snacks, and camp gear Includes FREE transportation from designated pick-up/drop-off sites in several area communities Provides sports instruction in recreational activities, including soccer, basketball, kickball, tag, golf, tennis and more.** Inclusive: 50% of campers are children with a disability and 50% are children without a disability. Since 2006, Camp Shriver at the University of Massachusetts Boston has welcomed 100-140 children each year, half with and half without intellectual and developmental disabilities, ages 8-12, from low-income families in the Boston area to a free inclusive summer sports camp. While recreational programs offered by schools and community agencies may accept children with disabilities, few—if any—are designed to enroll an equal number of children with and without disabilities. That is what makes Camp Shriver at UMass Boston unique. Camp Shriver serves an equal number of children with and without disabilities so that all children can play, learn and interact in meaningful ways with their peers—no matter what their disability status. A national model for inclusive recreational programming, Camp Shriver’s mission is to improve the social, emotional, and physical well-being of children of all abilities, by providing an inclusive community of friendship and fun. At Camp Shriver, children with and without disabilities build social skills and positive social relationships by learning and playing together. Stay in touch with Camp Shriver Sign Up for the Camp Shriver Seasonal Newsletter Camp Shriver at UMass Boston History of Camp Shriver in Video You can also view a video featuring Camp Shriver through our partners at the National Inclusion Project . *Camp Shriver receives partial funding for meals from the MA Department of Education Summer Food Service Program . Access the USDA Non-Discrimination Statement and our Camp Shriver MA Summer Food Public Release . For more information, please contact the Center for Social Development and Education at 617.287.7247 . Like us on Facebook Hear about Camp Shriver Watch a video on Camp Shriver Be Part of the Camp Shriver Family Open Image Modal Open Image Modal Open Image Modal Open Image Modal Open Image Modal Open Image Modal UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms