Faculty Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Honors College Faculty & Staff Faculty Resources Menu menu Menu Academics Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Faculty Resources Dean's Office Join the Honors College Resources for Faculty and Staff Campus Resources The Office for Faculty Development advances the university mission by supporting faculty excellence in research and scholarship, teaching and learning, and engaged service by providing opportunities for professional development at all stages of faculty careers (tenure- and non-tenure-track, from new faculty to emeritus faculty). The Office of the Dean of Students (ODOS) provides advocacy, intervention, proactive programming, and referral services to the university community. This office is an excellent resource if you are concerned about a student . The Ross Center strives to partner with faculty to coordinate accommodations for students with disabilities, and to review course design to maximize inclusion. The staff members of the Ross Center are available to collaborate with faculty with the goal of creating courses that are more universally accessible, minimizing the need for individual accommodations, and maintaining all essential elements. Healey Library resources for faculty Blackboard Learn is UMass Boston's online learning management system (LMS) that facilitates fully-online courses and adds online elements to face-to-face courses. All faculty are strongly encouraged to create a Blackboard course to support your face-to-face course. Blackboard is especially helpful when campus is closed due to an emergency such as a weather related closing. The FSU Travel and Research Support (RES) Fund Reimbursement . Honors College Advising and Student Success The Honors College Academic plan is a useful tool to learn about the Honors College curriculum and help students sequence required courses Honors College Policies and Protocols If you must miss a class for illness or personal/medical emergency, please email Leonard.VonMorze@umb.edu with as much notice as possible. Please note, in the event of a campus-wide closure, the Honors College defers to the campus protocol and notification process . As per a system-wide policy, out of pocket expenses (unless travel related) are no longer reimburseable. Read the policy information for a course syllabus . Follow the Honors College protocol for distressed and distressing students . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms