Students - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Ross Center for Disability Services Students Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Meet The Staff Resources Rights Documentation Students Accommodations Faq Grievance Procedure Requesting Accommodations Services Faculty Who Was The Ross Center Founder Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Students The Ross Center for Disability Services is the entity that approves and coordinates academic accommodations. If you are a student at UMass Boston and have a disability, you may be eligible for accommodations available through the Ross Center. We also provide connections to services in our office, and both on-and off-campus. The Ross Center invites you to call 617.287.7430, email ross.center@umb.edu, or visit the office in Campus Center, UL Room 211, and inquire about eligibility and procedures. New Students Step one: complete a Registration Request (use your UMass Boston email and password to access the application) to create a unique profile on myRCDS . You can upload your documentation ( see documentation guidelines ), or submit copies to the Ross Center via email (ross.center@umb.edu); fax to 617-287-7466; or in-person during business hours. Step two: Email ross.center@umb.edu to request a registration appointment. The registration appointment can be by in-person, by phone, or virtual. A Ross Center staff person will reach out to you to schedule the appointment. Step three: Attend scheduled registration meeting.  During that meeting, you and the Ross Center staff person will review your documentation, discuss accommodations appropriate for you based on the documentation provided and how to request accommodations for each semester, and/or refer you to other programs or offices for services available at the university (for example, tutoring). If needed, the staff person will explain the differences between access to accommodations in high school and those in college. Returning Students Step one: If you have not already done so, submit a Registration Request to create your profile in myRCDS (use your UMass Boston email and password to access the application). Please follow the steps above for new students, if needed. Step two: Once your record is active, you may log in to request accommodations, schedule exams, and submit alternate format requests.  You will need to login to request accommodations for each semester. During the semester, the Ross Center staff can help you navigate the campus to find the resources you need.  We encourage you to contact the Ross Center as early as possible in the semester so you can take advantage of the most options possible. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms