Community Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students U-Access Community Resources Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Community Resources Financial Literacy Program Food Pantry Give Justice Bridge Referral Form U Access Ambassador Program Uaccess Class Collaborations U Access Student Leaders Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Community Resources U-ACCESS On-Campus Resources SNAP Benefits SNAP provides nutrition benefits to supplement the food budget of needy families so they can purchase healthy food and move towards self-sufficiency. Book your appointment with U-ACCESS to apply for SNAP benefits. Justice Bridge Legal Center Justice Bridge offers free legal consultations to UMass Boston students on Tuesdays 1-4. The program offers a wide range of legal expertise. Lawyers work with their clients to provide the best possible services within their budgets. All lawyers are licensed, insured, and in good standing. They are mentored by retired judges, senior attorneys in legal service organizations, and partner with law firms who serve in various cases as outside consultants. Volunteer Income Tax Assistance The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to people who generally make $66,000 or less, persons with disabilities and limited English speaking taxpayers who need assistance in preparing their own tax returns. IRS-certified volunteers provide free basic income tax return preparation with electronic filing to qualified individuals. Tax preparation is available by appointment on Wednesdays and Thursdays Sitters for Scholars Sitters for Scholars is a first of its kind nonprofit organization. It offers free to low-cost weekly babysitting services to low-income mothers attending college in the Greater Boston area. Our volunteer sitters are committed to assisting mothers with childcare responsibilities, allowing them to pursue higher education and elevate their economic position. Off-Campus Community Resources Health Insurance MA Health Connector The Health Connector is a state-based health insurance Marketplace that makes shopping for affordable health and dental coverage easier for Massachusetts individuals, families, and small businesses. We offer plans from the state's leading insurers that have been awarded the state's Seal of Approval, so you can be sure the plan you choose meets both state and national coverage standards. MassHealth In Massachusetts, Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are combined into one program called MassHealth. MassHealth members may be able to get doctors’ visits, prescription drugs, hospital stays, and many other important services. “Obamacare” Affordable Care Act On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed comprehensive health reform, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, into law. Provisions included in the ACA are intended to expand access to insurance, increase consumer protections, emphasize prevention and wellness, improve quality and system performance, expand the health workforce, and curb rising health care costs. Public Assistance MA Department of Transitional Assistance The Department of Transitional Assistance (DTA) assists and empowers low-income individuals and families to meet their basic needs, improve their quality of life, and achieve long term economic self-sufficiency. DTA serves one in eight residents of the Commonwealth with direct economic assistance (cash benefits) and food assistance (SNAP benefits), as well as workforce training opportunities. SNAP benefits | Mass.gov On the Mass.gov website one can apply for SNAP benefits (food stamps), Women, Infants, & Children (WIC) Nutrition Program, Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, MassHealth, unemployment benefits, renew your vehicle registration, renew your driver's license, and report child abuse or neglect. USA.gov USA.gov provides online guide to government information and services to apply for benefits, get help with bills, grants and loans, food assistance, social security questions, affordable rental housing, financial aid for students, military programs and benefits, retirement, and unemployment help. Foster Care Transition Toolkit The Department of Education toolkit offers resources for youth transitioning from foster care to adulthood. Legal Assistance/Information Mass Legal Help Massachusetts legal aid programs put together this website to help people find practical information about their legal rights in Massachusetts. Mass Legal Services This program offers resources and information about legal issues facing lower income Massachusetts residents to legal services advocates and social services professionals. Legal Advocacy Guides Links to various Legal Advocacy Guides on a range of poverty law topics. These Guides are generally available as downloadable PDFs. Legal Resource Finder - Find Legal Aid The Legal Resource Finder search results will give you contact information for legal aid programs, nonprofits, government agencies and court programs that may be able to help you with your legal issue for free or at a low cost. It will also give you links to legal information and self-help materials. Miscellaneous Resources The Home for Little Wanders The program is funded jointly by states and the federal. Primary service areas include: individual, group and family therapy; psychological and neuro-psychological testing; medication management; child and family skills development; therapeutic mentoring; birth parent counseling; life skills training; community connection and integration; behavioral stabilization; educational preparation; and social, vocational and daily living supports. Action for Boston Community Development (ABCD) ABCD is an assistance program that offers many programs that serve children, youth, elders, and families with needs that include financial, food, health, housing, immigration, education, and other essential needs such as fuel assistance and childcare. Boston Area Rape Crisis Center (BARCC) The Boston Area Rape Crisis Center offers free, confidential services to survivors, parents, and friends ages 12 and older. Services include the support of trained counselors during crisis and in the healing process. BARCC also offers medical advocacy, legal services, case management, and support groups for survivors and their families. Bay Cove Human Services Bay Cove offers Addiction Services, Adult Day Health Services, Child & Family Services, Healthcare Integration Services, Housing & Homeless Services, Long Term Support Services, and Mental Health Services. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms