Online Payments - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Bursar Payment Information Online Payments Menu menu Menu Plan to Pay Financial Responsibility Agreement Tuition & Fees Payment Information Electronic Billing Online Payments Student Refunds Health Insurance Bookstore Advance Student Tax Information Forms Assistance Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Online Payments Announcements This page is not for the payment of Housing, Application Fee or New Student Deposit of Undergraduate students or Graduate students. Please contact the Admissions Office for other payment options. Payments or Questions for Office of Housing and Residential Life, please call 617.287.6011. Please Note:  Although UMass Boston will facilitate your use of the ©Flywire, if you choose to use your debit card or credit card, please remember that UMass Boston does not share in any service fees assessed by the vendor. If you have technical questions about your ©Flywire transactions, you might contact the ©Flywire Hotline at 1.800.346.9252.  Any other questions please contact the Bursar's Office directly. This new ©Flywire payment platform will: Provide convenient payment options for paying your student bills. Enable you to check your current balances in a comprehensible view. Provide you real-time online credit card and/or eCheck payment transactions. Process international wire transfers in your currency and provide customer services in many languages. Offers intelligible payment plans through Flywire with recurring payments. Allow you to set up your parents, guardians and third parties as authorized user to make the online payments on your behalf. Make the overall process of paying your student bills quick, easy and transparent. Instructional video: How to make an online payment Credit Card Payments Credit card payments can be processed through the ©Flywire (MasterCard, VISA, Discover, or American Express cards are accepted). If you choose this option, you can login to the WISER self-services account then go to "Student Financial Center" and select "Payment options". You will be taken to a secure site operated by ©Flywire to process your payment. When you use ©Flywire to make a payment, ©Flywire will add a non-refundable fee as a "Service Charge".  You will be informed the amount of the non-refundable service charge prior to the completion of your transaction. Service Charges are paid to ©Flywire. Important: The non-refundable service fee will also apply to debit card payments processed through ©Flywire. E-check Payments - Automated Clearing House (ACH) Transactions Tuition and fees can be paid online by e-check from your checking or savings account through ©Flywire . This type of payment results in an electronic debit of your bank account. Bank information like routing number, account number and account holder name are required to complete an ACH payment. If you choose this option, you can login to the WISER self-services account then go to "Student Financial Center" and select "Payment options" link. You will be taken to a secure site operated by ©Flywire to process your payment. ACH payments are not subject to the service fee. *Before making an Automated Clearing House transaction (ACH payment), please verify your account information and that your bank allows electronic debiting of your account.  Online payments made with incorrect bank routing number or bank account number will not be recognized by your financial institution, and the payment will "bounce" within one to five business days. Important: Payment made online cannot be cancelled or stopped once they are submitted. All payments are subject to verification and could delay the removal of the Administrative Hold. Please arrange your online payment accordingly. When the ACH payments were rejected / returned in the past, the financial hold cannot be removed till the payments have been verified in 7 calendar days. Return fee will be applied to the student's account if ACH payment is returned by the bank, and you may be unable to process future ACH payments through WISER or © Flywire . Connect Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 STUDENT INQUIRIES Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday: 10:00 am to 4:00 pm Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing. TELLER HOURS (Student Payments & Departmental Deposits) Monday – Friday: 8:30 am – 4:00 pm INTERNAL BUSINESS FOR UMB DEPARTMENTS Phone: Contact the Bursar Office staff directly or email BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday 8:30 am to 4:00 pm See Also WISER Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms