This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > UGRD > edc u > edc u 375 UTeach: Functions and Modeling Course #: EDC U 375 Description: In this course, students will engage in explorations and lab activities designed to strengthen and expand knowledge of the topics found in secondary mathematics. Students will collect data and explore a variety of situations that can be modeled using linear, exponential, polynomial, and trigonometric functions. Topics involving function properties and patterns, complex numbers, parametric equations, polar equations, vectors, and exponential growth and decay will be investigated. Explorations will involve the use of multiple representations, transformations, data analysis techniques (such as curve fitting) and interconnections among topics in algebra, analytic geometry, statistics, trigonometry, and calculus. The lab investigations will include use of various technologies including computers, calculators, and computer graphing software. Within each of the four units included in the course, the activities by which students learn are chosen and designed to do one of more of the following: 1. Take a second, deeper look at topics that have been exposed to previously;2. Illuminate the connections between secondary and college mathematics;3. Illustrate good (as opposed to the all too often poor, sometimes counterproductive) use of technology in teaching;4. Illuminate the connections between various areas of mathematics;5. Involvement as a student in serious (i.e., non-routine) problem solving;6. Engage in problem-based learning;7. Engage in non-routine applications of mathematics.This is a course designed to make students think. Pre Requisites: Offered in: TBA Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000