Seasonal Flu - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Health Services Health Happenings Seasonal Flu Menu menu Menu About Emergencies Health Happenings COVID-19 Seasonal Flu Choices Regarding Pregnancy Party Drugs and Substance Use Skin Cancer Prevention Climate Effects on Health Gambling & Sports Betting Counseling Center General Medicine Wellness Patient Resources Immunizations & Health Requirements Forms Billing My Health Beacon Portal General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu Seasonal Flu Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and sometimes lungs. It causes mild to severe illness. The best way to prevent flu is by getting a flu vaccine each year. Stay Up-to-Date with Influenza Schedule a COVID/Flu Shot with Osco Pharmacy for 9/23 & 9/30 Here! Symptoms of the Flu Flu symptoms usually come on suddenly and can range from mild to severe. Common symptoms include: Fever or feeling feverish/chills Cough Sore throat Runny or stuffy nose Muscle or body aches Headaches Fatigue (tiredness) Vomiting and diarrhea (more common in children than adults) If you are feeling sick, we encourage taking a COVID-19 antigen test to rule out COVID-19. If you need to be seen by a healthcare provider, please make an appointment at UHS . When to Seek Emergency Medical Attention Look for emergency warning signs for influenza: Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath Persistent pain or pressure in the chest or abdomen Persistent dizziness, confusion, inability to arouse Seizures Not urinating Severe muscle pain Severe weakness or unsteadiness Fever or cough that improves but then returns or worsens Worsening of chronic medical conditions If someone is showing any of these signs, call 911 or call ahead to a local emergency facility. Please call your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you. Period of Contagiousness You may be able to spread flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as when you are sick with symptoms. People with flu are most contagious in the first 3-4 days after their illness begins. Some otherwise healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning one day before symptoms develop and up to five to seven days after becoming sick. Young children and people with weakened immune systems might be able to infect others for an even longer time. How Does the Flu Spread? Flu viruses are spread mainly by tiny droplets made when people with flu cough, sneeze, or talk. These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby. Less often, a person might get the flu by touching a surface or object that has the flu virus on it and then touching their mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes. Prevention and Treatment How Can I Prevent Seasonal Flu? Get Vaccinated : The first and most important step in preventing flu is to get a flu vaccine each year. Everyday Preventive Actions : Stay away from people who are sick, cover coughs and sneezes, and wash your hands frequently to help slow down the spread of germs that cause respiratory illnesses like the flu. Can the Flu Be Treated? Yes. There are prescription medications called antiviral drugs that can be used to treat flu illness. CDC recommends prompt treatment for people who have flu or suspected flu and who are at higher risk of serious flu complications, such as people with asthma, diabetes, or heart disease. There are several benefits to antiviral drugs: Timely Treatment: Works best when started soon after the flu illness begins. Symptom Reduction: Can lessen fever and flu symptoms and shorten the duration of illness by about one day if started within two days of symptom onset. What the benefits of antiviral drugs? Antiviral treatment works best when started soon after the flu illness begins. When treatment is started within two days of becoming sick with flu symptoms, antiviral drugs can lessen fever and flu symptoms and shorten the time you are sick by about one day. The CDC offers these details on what you should know about antiviral drugs . Should I Get The Flu Vaccine? Yes! Everyone 6 months and older should receive a flu vaccine every year. While antiviral drugs can treat the flu, they are not a substitute for getting vaccinated. Vaccines University Health Services recommends that all students, faculty and staff receive the flu vaccine every year. On-Campus Flu Shots Osco Pharmacy Mobile Clinics (Students, Staff & Faculty) Upcoming Clinics: September 23 & 30, 2024 Click here to book an appointment! UHS Flu Shots (Students only) Students can self-book on their health portal under the "Appointments" tab or call 617-287-5660 to book an appointment with the front desk. Off-Campus Flu Shots Use the Vaccine Finder. Check with Healthcare Providers: Your doctor, pharmacist, or community health center. State Health Department: Contact for additional resources. Local Pharmacies: Check websites for available vaccination appointments. Walk-in appointments may also be available. Stay protected and help prevent the spread of influenza by staying informed and getting vaccinated annually. General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms