Return of Title IV Funds - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Financial Aid Apply for Financial Aid Maintain Your Eligibility Return of Title IV Funds Menu menu Menu Apply for Financial Aid Eligibility & Important Dates Understanding FAFSA Verification Award Letter Cost Of Attendance Appeals Forms Counseling Staff Summer Financial Aid Winter Financial Aid Maintain Your Eligibility SAP (Satisfactory Academic Progress) SAP Appeals Process Submitting an SAP Appeal SAP FAQs Return of Title IV Funds Disbursement of Aid Completing Requirements Online Financial Aid Planner FAFSA Changes Student Loan Repayment Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Graduate Student Financial Aid Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships Return of Title IV Funds Students earn Title IV federal financial aid by attending and participating in classes. The amount of Title IV aid a student has earned for the enrollment period is based on the percentage of time the student remains enrolled for that period. The earned percentage is calculated by dividing the numbers of days within the enrollment period by the number of days attended. Once a student earns 60%, the student is considered to have earned 100% of Title IV federal aid and no adjustments are required. The last date of attendance (or withdrawal date) is determined by theU date the student officially submits the withdrawal form to the university, or otherwise notifies the university of his/her intent to withdraw. The calculation of Title IV funds earned by the student has no relationship to the student's incurred institutional charges. Federal Title IV funds will be returned in the following order: Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Federal Direct Subsidized Stafford Loan Federal Perkins Loan Federal PLUS Loan / Federal Graduate PLUS Loan Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) Federal TEACH Grant Federal Work Study earnings are not included in the return of funds calculations.  Students may not continue working once they cease attendance. Any unearned Title IV funds required to be returned will be processed within 45 days of the student’s withdrawal date. Unofficial Withdrawals An unofficial withdrawal occurs when a student enrolls in courses and either never attends any courses or stops attending all courses at some point during the semester without providing official notification to the university.  Students receiving Title IV federal aid who unofficially withdraw will have their aid recalculated in the same manner as an official withdrawal. For a student who unofficially withdraws, the university determines the last date of attendance based on the student’s last date of an academically related activity.  If the student never began attendance, the student must repay all financial aid disbursed. Post Withdrawal A student may be eligible for a post-withdrawal disbursement of federal Title IV aid if the return of funds calculation indicates the student earned more aid than was disbursed prior to the student’s withdrawal. Post-withdrawal disbursements of Title IV grants must be completed within 45 days of the student’s withdrawal date, and any loan funds accepted by the student within 180 days of the student’s withdrawal date. Return of Non-Title IV Funds The university will calculate return of non-Title IV funds in accordance with the appropriate state and institutional refund policy. Massachusetts state funds are calculated based on the Massachusetts Office of Student Financial Assistance (OSFA) policy guidelines. Institutional funds will be returned on a case-by-case basis following appropriate administrator review of aid earned and balance due. Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms