Library Instruction - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Library Info For Faculty Library Instruction Menu menu Menu About Healey Library Course Reserves E-Resources Help Info For Faculty Film & Media InterLibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Interlibrary Loan Journals My Library Account Library Instruction What has traditionally been called library research has become increasingly complex in today’s world. In support of the teaching mission of the university, Healey Library offers a variety of programs and services to help UMass Boston students engage in key, lifelong, critical thinking and information-seeking skills. Custom, Course-Integrated Library Instruction Classes A reference-instruction librarian will meet with your class virtually through Zoom, Blackboard Collaborate, or any other platform that you might be using. Students will learn to maximize their information literacy skills and effectively use and evaluate relevant print and electronic resources. Each session is tailored to your students, the course subject, and your assignment. Course-integrated library instruction is most effective when students have a project to complete for a grade. Classes typically range from 50 minutes to 1.5 hours. We created a one-page student guide to library services to add to your syllabi. Please use the Research Workshop Request Form to schedule a virtual workshop. How We Can Work With You Information literacy instruction is most effective when it is fully integrated into the goals of your class. You can schedule library instruction to coincide with the time when students are working on their research assignments and are most motivated to learn. With your help, we can stay in touch with your students to provide follow-up assistance after the library session through email and individual consultations. How We Do It The following goals, based on ACRL's Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education , guide the design of all instructional modules developed for our program: Teach students to define their information needs, identify and select appropriate sources of information, and to evaluate these sources in terms of relevance, reliability, and objectivity. Teach students strategies, as well as mechanical skills, for information seeking. Teach students information seeking as a process that involves critical thinking and decision making. Integrate active learning techniques, including group and individual activities and database searching. Tips for an Effective Library Instruction Experience The following provisions can help us create an engaging learning atmosphere and conduct relevant library instruction: Provide students with their assignment before the library instruction session. Library sessions are most effective after students have chosen research topics and when they have an immediate and concrete need for the information literacy skills we teach. Provide us with students' paper topics in advance of the library session so that they can be used as examples during the instruction session. Provide us instructions about the types of resources needed to complete assignment. For example: books, popular articles and/or peer-reviewed articles, newspaper articles, etc. How to Get Started & Get More Information Effective library instruction takes time to prepare and is in great demand. To ensure that your students will get the instruction they need when they need it, please contact us at least two weeks in advance. Email us for additional information or complete the Research Workshop Request Form to schedule a virtual workshop. Library Menu About Accessibility Archives Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Databases List E-Resources Give Now Healey Library News Help Info for Faculty InterLibrary Loan My Library Account Research Guides (Search by topic) ScholarWorks (Campus Archives for Faculty Research and Publications) UMBrella Worldcat at UMass Boston (Search libraries worldwide) Healey Library 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 US 617.287.5900 Connect Ask a Librarian Email your question Call 617.287.5940 Chat with a Librarian Text 617.826.9978 Research Consultation Visit the Reference Desk Frequently Asked Questions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms