Student Q&A: Soonbee Kwon '25 - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Student Q&A: Soonbee Kwon '25 Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Beacons Magazine Fall 2023 Student Q&A: Soonbee Kwon ’25 12/08/2023 |
    Alumni Magazine Soonbee Kwon has always dreamed of connecting others through music. When she was younger, she was happiest when she was picking up an instrument in music class. Now a junior at UMass Boston majoring in music education, Kwon still has her sights set on that goal. We met up with Kwon to learn about her goal of helping others through music, her fondest memories at UMass Boston, and her vision for the future. Q: What made you choose UMass Boston? An affordable education and access to a diverse learning environment was what attracted me to UMass Boston. Q: How did UMass Boston play a role in where you are today? UMass Boston allowed me to express my identity and embrace the things I have to offer. As a first-year student, I was a timid person who was afraid to make mistakes. But as I put myself out there, I received a lot of support and encouragement from my academic advisors, which boosted my confidence and helped me become a leader. Q: What has been your most memorable experience as a Beacon thus far? Morning and night walks along the Harborwalk have been one of my best memories here so far. The combination of the cool breeze and the smell of the saltwater really makes the experience worthwhile. Another memorable experience is playing Band is Horrible, a card game, with some of my music friends after class. Q: Who at UMass Boston has had the most influence on your life? The performing arts faculty made me fall in love with music again. Their dedication, their passion, and their expertise shine in and out of the classroom. I have personally experienced the care the professors have for their students to help them succeed academically, and to support them in their lives outside of the classroom. I highly value a musical community that encourages and connects with one another, and I can proudly say that I have made myself at home with all the musicians I have encountered here and have made lifelong relationships. Q: What are your career aspirations? I always had a desire to help people and felt a greater sense of accomplishment from helping others than accomplishing my own goals. I would like to keep an open mind, but I am hoping to pursue something in music and combine my love for music with my passion to help others and to give back to the communities I belong to. Q: What would you tell a prospective UMass Boston student? UMass Boston has lots to offer and will prepare you for the real world. It is not going to be easy, but have an open mind and accept that you don’t need to have it all figured out. Lean on the constants in your life. Seek support systems that will help make college life less stressful. Challenge yourself to take that one extra step. And of course, have some fun! UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms