Math Tutoring & Advising - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Academic Departments Mathematics Math Tutoring & Advising Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Biochemistry Computer Science Biology Engineering Chemistry Mathematics Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Math Tutoring & Advising Physics Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs Research Student Success Center Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Math Tutoring & Advising Taffee Tanimoto Mathematics Resource Center The Taffee Tanimoto Mathematics Resource Center, named in honor of the founding Chair of Mathematics at UMass Boston, is a drop-in help center operated by the Department of Mathematics, serving all students enrolled in our 100 and 200-level courses. The Center offers technical assistance with the WebWork online homework platform and provides subject tutoring for most 100 and 200-level mathematics courses. Location The Tanimoto Center is situated in room W-3-154-30, inside the main Mathematics Department space on the third floor of Wheatley Hall, adjacent to the Venture Development Center. For your convenience, we have posted directional signs around Wheatley Hall and within the Department to help you locate the Tanimoto Center and our study alcoves. Hours of Operation Current Hours of Operation: (Fall 2024) Monday: 10:00am-4:00pm Tuesday: 10:00am-4:00pm Wednesday: 10:00am-4:00pm Thursday: 10:00am-4:00pm Friday: 10:00am-4:00pm The Center is closed on all University holidays. For the detailed Tanimoto Weekly Schedule , please refer to the provided PDF document. Book an Appointment While drop-ins are welcome, we recommend reserving an appointment, especially during peak usage hours. Book an Appointment Becoming a Tanimoto Fellow or Assistant he Tanimoto Center is staffed by advanced mathematics students who have excelled in their introductory courses and possess the ability to communicate mathematical concepts clearly to a non-specialist audience. If you need more information about the Tanimoto Center, please reach out to TanimotoCenter@umb.edu . Advising Resources All students who have completed at least fifty (50) credits should receive advising from a Mathematics Department faculty member. You can find the name of your advisor in WISER. Please contact us at math@umb.edu if you need to be assigned a faculty advisor or if you have questions about your program. For a brief overview of our programs, advice for aspiring mathematics majors, and examples of careers for math majors, check out our information for mathematics majors slideshow . Applied and Pure Mathematics (BS) Program The Applied and Pure Mathematics Concentration is the most “traditional” concentration and students pursuing it will have a solid foundation for various math careers ahead of them. Students interested in going to graduate school in fields like mathematics or physics or working on mathematical modeling in industry or research laboratories, might want to consider the Applied and Pure Mathematics Concentration. Applied and Pure Mathematics (BS) Program Description - This document describes the program, including the required courses and learning outcomes. Applied and Pure Mathematics (BS) Advising Form - This is a fillable PDF form that you can use to track your progress in the program. Sample Four-Year Plan - Sample plan provided by the Student Success Center to help you stay on track. Computational Mathematics (BS) Program The Computational Mathematics Concentration provides broad math education with an emphasis on computer and mathematical models as tools to solve real-world problems. Students graduating in this concentration would be qualified to look for jobs, for example, in actuarial companies, finance, machine learning industry or apply to grad schools in computational and data-driven sciences, like computer science, engineering or medical research. Computational Mathematics (BS) Program Description - This document describes the program, including the required courses and learning outcomes. Computational Mathematics (BS) Advising Form - This is a fillable PDF form that you can use to track your progress in the program. Sample Four-Year Plan - Sample plan provided by the Student Success Center to help you stay on track. Mathematics for Teaching (BA) Program The Mathematics for Teaching Concentration provides broad math education with a focus on the development of math ideas and math reasoning. Students who are interested in teaching math, math education, developing educational software or other educational tools for math might consider this concentration. Mathematics for Teaching (BA) Program Description - This document describes the program, including the required courses and learning outcomes. Mathematics for Teaching (BA) Advising Form - This is a fillable PDF form that you can use to track your progress in the program. Sample Four-Year Plan - Sample plan provided by the Student Success Center to help you stay on track. Mathematics Minor Whether you wish to pursue an undergraduate degree in preparation for advancement in your career or advancement in your studies, obtaining a minor in mathematics will assist you in your goals. A minor in mathematics can be tailored to complement many different majors and will provide you with analytical and technical skills that will make your résumé stand apart. Obtaining a minor in mathematics requires the completion of just seven courses in the Department of Mathematics. Mathematics Minor Advising Form - This is a fillable PDF form that you can use to track your progress in the program. Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms