Betsy.Sweet - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Betsy.Sweet Elizabeth Sweet Department: SFE - Dean's Office Title: Associate Dean Graduate Program Director, Urban Planning and Community Development, MS Send Email Degrees PhD, Public Policy Analysis-Urban Planning and Policy, University of Illinois at Chicago MUPP, Master of Urban Planning and Policy, University of Illinois at Chicago BA, Soviet and East European Studies, Boston University Professional Publications & Contributions 2019 Arenas, I and E. L. Sweet, Disassembling cities: spatial, social, and conceptual trajectories across the urban globe. In Disassembled Cities: Social and Spatial Strategies to Reassemble Communities in Cities Across the Globe, E. L. Sweet (ed), London and New York, Routledge Press, pgs. 3-14. 2019 Arenas, I and E. L. Sweet, The organizing logics of predatory formations: Individualism, identity, and the consumption of goods as the good life. In Disassembled Cities: Social and Spatial Strategies to Reassemble Communities in Cities Across the Globe, E. L. Sweet (ed), London and New York, Routledge Press, pgs. 25-31. 2019 Arenas, I and E. L. Sweet, The organizing logics of predatory formations: militarization and the spectacle of the (in)security state. In Disassembled Cities: Social and Spatial Strategies to Reassemble Communities in Cities Across the Globe, E. L. Sweet (ed), London and New York, Routledge Press, pgs. 73-82. 2019 Arenas, I and E. L. Sweet, The organizing logics of predatory formations: disassembling democracy and urban planning. In Disassembled Cities: Social and Spatial Strategies to Reassemble Communities in Cities Across the Globe, E. L. Sweet (ed), London and New York, Routledge Press, pgs. 141-148. 2019 E. L. Sweet and M. Chakars, Dissassembledge in the Siberian city of Ulan-Ude: How ethnic Buryats reconstruct through time and space. In Disassembled Cities: Social and Spatial Strategies to Reassemble Communities in Cities Across the Globe, E. L. Sweet (ed), London and New York, Routledge Press, pgs. 156-170. In Press Jenkins, L. and E. L. Sweet Embracing a Culture of Humility, Diversity, & Inclusion: A Case Study of a Library’s “Radical Compassion” programming. Implementing Excellence in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: A Handbook for Academic Libraries editors Corliss Lee and Brian Lym to be published by the Association of College and Research Libraries. 2019 E. L. Sweet, (editor) Disassembled Cities: Social and Spatial Strategies to Reassemble Communities in Cities Across the Globe, Routledge Press. 2019 Sweet E.L., R. Sanders, and D. M. Peters. Reversing the Gaze, Insiders Out, Outsiders In: Stories from the Ivory Tower and the Field. Journal of Urban Affairs. 2019 Turner K. M., E. L. Sweet, and *E. Fornaro. From Ferguson to Charleston and Beyond: Talking about Race and Diversity in the classroom. Communication Teacher 33(1): 38-44 2018 D. M. Peters, E. L. Sweet, K. M. Turner and K. Williams-Witherspoon. The Elephant in the Room: Challenges and Prejudice in the Academy? In Not White/Straight/Male/Healthy Enough Being “Other” in the Academy, M. Moreno, K. Quinn-Sánchez, M. Shaul (eds.), Cambridge Scholar, pg 21-28. 2018 Cultural Humility: An Open Door for Planners to Locate Themselves and Decolonize Planning Theory, Education and Practice. eJournal of Public Affairs 7(2):1-16. 2017 Sweet, E. L. and *S. Ortiz Escalante. Engaging Territorio Cuerpo-Tierra through body and community mapping: A methodology for making communities safer. Gender Place in Culture 24(4): 594-606. 2017 D. M. Peters, S. Peterson-Lewis, R. Sanders, E. L. Sweet, K. M. Turner and K. Williams-Witherspoon. Treading Treacherous Waters: A conversation with Women Faculty of Color on Teaching Race, In Leadership, in Equity, and Social Justice in American Higher Education- A Reader, C. P. Gause (ed), Peter Lang, pg 128-141. 2017 The benefits and challenges of Collective and Creative Storytelling through visceral methods within the neoliberal university. Geoforum 82: 202-203. 2016 Carceral feminism: Linking the state, intersectional bodies, and the dichotomy of place. Dialogues in Human Geography 6(2): 202–205. 2016 Locating Migrant Latina Economic Activities in a Diverse Economies Framework: Evidence from Chicago. Gender Place and Culture 23(1): 55-71. 2016 Gender, Violence and the City of Emotion, In The Participatory City, Y. Beebeejaun, (ed) Berlin, Jovis, pg 121-127. 2015 Sweet, E. L. and *S. Ortiz Escalante. Bringing bodies into planning: visceral methods, fear, and gender violence. Urban Studies, 52(10): 1826-1845. 2015 Joshi, S., P. McCutcheon, and E. L. Sweet. Visceral geographies of whiteness and invisible microagressions. ACME: An International E-Journal for Critical Geographies 14(1): 298-323 2015 Latina Kitchen Table Planning Saving Communities: Intersectionality and Insurgencies in an Anti-Immigrant City. Local Environments: International Journal of Justice and Sustainability 20(6): 728-743. 2015 Hayes-Conroy, A and E. L. Sweet. Whose adequacy?: (Re)Imagining food security with displaced women in Medellin, Colombia. Agriculture and Human Values 32(3): 373-384. 2015 Chakars, M., and E. L. Sweet. Women and the economics of survival before and after regime change: Diverse economies and work strategies in the Russian Republic of Buryatia. GeoJournal 79(5): 649-663. 2013 Ortiz Escalante, S. and E. L. Sweet. 2013 Ortiz Escalante, S. and E. L. Sweet Migrant Women’s Safety: Framing, Policies and Practice, In Building Inclusive Cities: Women’s Safety and the Right to the City, Whitzman, C. et al. (eds.), London and New York, Routledge, pg 53-72. 2012 New Configurations of Racism after 9/11: Gender and Race in the Context of the Anti-Immigrant City, In Reinventing Race, Reinventing Racism, J. J. Betancur and C. Harring (eds.), Brill Publishers, pg 241-257. 2012 *Drigo, M. V., C. Ehlschlaeger and E. L. Sweet. Intimate Partner Violence and Support Systems, Ecologist-Developed Spatially-Explicit Dynamic Landscape Models (Modeling Dynamic Systems), edited by James Westervelt, New York, Springer Publishing Company, Chapter 14: 234-254. 2012 Sweet, E. L., *S. Lee and *S. Ortiz Escalante. 'A Slow Assassination of Your Soul' Race, Citizenship and Gender Identities in the Borderlands of New Economic Places, Transnational Migration, Gender and Rights, Ragnhild Sollund and Liam Leonard (eds.), Emerald Group Publishing Limited, pgs. 99-126. 2011 Sweet, E. L. and H. Etienne. Commentary: Diversity in Urban Planning Education and Practice. Journal of Planning Education and Research 31(3): 332-339. 2010 Sweet, E. L. and M. Chakars. Identity, Culture, Land, and Language: Stories of Insurgent Planning in the Republic of Buryatia in Russia Journal of Planning Education and Research 30(2): 198-209 (also see letter to the editor and my response regarding this article). 2010 Sweet, E. L. and *S. Ortiz Escalante. Planning Responds to Gender Violence: Evidence from Spain, Mexico, and the Unites States Urban Studies 47(10): 2129-2147 (19th most downloaded article in Urban Studies in September 2010 and 17th in October 2010) (published in Spanish in Jornadas Estudios Urbanos, Género y Feminismo: teorías y experiencias in 2013: 39-62 ISBN 978-84-616-7657-6). 2010 Diversity in Urban Planning: From the Discipline to Department Climates, Implementing Diversity: Contemporary Challenges and Best Practices at Predominantly White Universities, Jorge Chapa, Helen Neville, and Margaret Browne Huntt (eds.), Champaign, IL, Center for Democracy in a Multiracial Society, pgs. 224-246. 2009 Ethnographic Understandings of Gender and Economic Transition in Siberia: Im plications for Planners and Policy Makers European Planning Studies Journal 17(5): 701-718. 2007 Beyond WID WAD and GAD: Expanding Gendered Economic Development Theory Part 2, История и культура народов сибири стран центральной и восточной азии батуевские чтения (History and Culture of the Siberian People, Central and East Asia Countries: Batuevskie Readings), Ulan Ude, Russia 486-496 2006 Spy or Feminist: “Grrrilla” Research on the Margin. Demos, V., & Texler Segal, M. (Eds.) Gender and the local-global nexus: theory, research, and action, pgs.145-162. 2006 Beyond WID WAD and GAD: Expanding Gendered Economic Development Theory Part 1 История и культура народов сибири стран центральной и восточной азии батуевские чтения. (History and Culture of the Siberian People, Central and East Asia Countries: Batuevskie Readings), Ulan Ude, Russia 125-133. 2006 Capeheart, L. and E. L. Sweet, Condiciόnes, Drogas, y La Cárcel: Life Circumstances and Drug Usage of Latino Arrestees in Miami, New York, San Antonio, and San Jose Criminal Justice Policy Review 17(4): 427-450 (among the 50 most read articles in Criminal Justice Policy Review). Additional Information An expert in planning theory and qualitative research methodologies, Elizabeth L. Sweet teaches in the Urban Planning and Community Development Program and the Department of Africana Studies at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Professor Sweet engages in collaborative community economic development with a focus on the links between economies, violence, and identities. Using feminist, anti-racist and decolonial frameworks, her work in U.S. Native, Black, Latino and Latin American communities has led to long term collaborations and inclusive projects that both push the boundaries of planning theory and methods while at the same time provides practical planning interventions. In recent publications she has proposed the use of body map storytelling and community mapping as innovative ways to co-create data and strategies with communities on a wide range of issues and urban problems. Theoretically, these methods create awareness that enables planners and communities to re-envision their relationships with environments and see their visceral, historical, and spiritual bonds. These new understandings promote new practices. Her most recent project is focused on Afromexicans and Native erasure and the ways that Anti Black/Native narratives impact Mexicans/Chicanos in U.S. cities. Professor Sweet has also been very active in promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion within university settings through organizing events, student recruitment, and publishing both research and teaching articles on the same. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms