UMass Boston Online Skip to Content Online & Continuing Education Programs Courses Admissions Contact 0 × Cart You have courses in your cart Back to Course Listings Review Cart & Register Set yourself up for success, online. Browse Programs Browse Courses Authentic Online Education. UMass Boston is the city’s only public research university. Our
                mission is access to higher education for all, and we’re taking
                it seriously. UMB Online gives you digital access to the same
                quality courses and programs we offer on campus, taught by
                the same academic departments, at one of the lowest online
                costs per credit available. We run this ourselves, not through a
                third party, so you get the very best of what UMass Boston has
                to offer. Get Started I'm interested in: Select a Topic: Business Education & Counseling Environment & Urban Planning Language, Arts & Social Sciences Nursing & Health Policy & Global Studies Professional Studies “ Creating new knowledge while serving the public good. ” — Excerpt from UMass Boston Mission Inspired Distance Learning. UMass Boston has deep roots in Instructional Design — the use of technology
                    and techniques to improve adult learning — so it’s only natural that we feature it. Each online course is prepared by a team of our own professors, instructional designers, and IT specialists, then vetted with students. That way, we can ensure the quality and accessibility for all. Cybersecurity Management Certificate Equip yourself to solve business information security challenges. MBA Earn your MBA entirely online in as little as one year. Nursing Post-Master's Certificate Expand your practice with a new nursing specialty. Take the Next Step Find your UMass Boston Online Program. Get Started About Us UMass Boston is an accredited, nonprofit university founded in
                        1965 as part of the University of Massachusetts system. Located
                        a short public transit ride from downtown, our physical campus
                        hosts a student body of more than 16,000. UMass Boston is the
                        city’s only public research university, benefitting from and giving
                        back to Boston’s thriving academic, business, technology, and
                        medical industries. “ I've done online courses at other schools. The UMass Boston program excelled in a lot of areas, such as course content and involvement by / access to professors. ” — Steven P. Online Certificate Student Still have Questions? Contact Us 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 617.287.5000 © University of Massachusetts Boston All trademarks, service marks and trade names (e.g., the UMass Boston name, the lighthouse, and B insignia) are owned, registered and/or licensed by the University of Massachusetts Boston. Contact Us On Campus Programs ADA Privacy & Terms SARA & Dispute Resolution Title IX