Student Q&A: Kaushar Barejiya ’24  - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Student Q&A: Kaushar Barejiya ’24 Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Beacons Magazine Spring 2024 Student Q&A: Kaushar Barejiya ’24 06/18/2024 |
    Beacons Magazine Undergraduate Student Body President Kaushar Barejiya ’24 is determined to become an attorney, and as she finishes up her senior year as a political science major at UMass Boston, she’s one step closer to making that dream a reality. We met up with Barejiya to learn more about her UMass Boston experience, both in and out of the classroom. Q: What made you choose to attend UMass Boston? At first, I planned to head to law school in London but decided to pursue my undergraduate studies in the United States instead. Being an international student, I didn’t have the luxury of visiting the campus in person before making my decision. So, it’s fair to say that all the reasons I now love UMass Boston weren’t apparent to me back then. They only became real once I stepped foot on campus. Q: How did UMass Boston play a role in where you are today? I cannot emphasize enough that a significant portion of the college experience exists beyond the academic buildings. Whether it was joining clubs, taking on leadership roles, or pursuing internships with nonprofits and even the congressional office of Senator Ed Markey, these experiences expanded my network and gave a purpose and meaning to my education. UMass Boston’s unique position in the city as a public university helped me tap into resources and opportunities afforded by the city of Boston. Q: What has been your most memorable experience as a Beacon thus far? Being elected as the undergraduate student body president for the academic year 2023–24 was undeniably one of the most profound and memorable experiences of my time as a Beacon. Whether it was navigating complex issues, collaborating with the university administration, or spearheading initiatives that came with multilayered obstacles, every day was a chance to lead with integrity. Q: Who at UMass Boston has had the most influence on your life? My time at UMass Boston has been shaped by the collective contributions and influences of many people, specifically my professors and friends. I would be remiss if I didn’t mention Rachel Puopolo, my academic advisor and director of CLA First in the College of Liberal Arts. She has been a constant support since day one. Her patience and her wise words have helped me through some tough academic challenges. Q: What are your goals after graduation? After graduation, I plan to work for a year or two and then go to law school to get my JD. Q: What would you tell a prospective student considering attending UMass Boston? With a plethora of resources available at UMass Boston, having a sense of direction enables you to utilize them effectively. While the college experience can be overwhelming, having short- and long-term goals will help you stay centered and grounded. Extracurriculars are the cornerstone of any college student’s experience. You will find something that best suits your passions and interests here at UMass Boston, but you will have to go out and put effort into finding it. Q: Is there anything you would like to add that we haven’t covered yet? The college experience is an unparalleled and irreplaceable opportunity that comes once in a lifetime. Embrace it fully. It’s a time to explore new endeavors, even if that means facing failure along the way. At UMass Boston, you will find a great community of friends and professors. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms