Secure Shell (SSH) Proxy - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Research Computing Research Computing Knowledge Base Secure Shell (SSH) Proxy Menu menu Menu Applications High Performance Computing Research Computing Knowledge Base File Transfers Modules Secure Shell (SSH) Secure Shell (SSH) Proxy Research Computing Advisory Committee Services Staff SSH Proxy We recommend that all users use one of the VPN services offered by the university to connect to HPC resources from off campus, in particular the 'Research VPN'. For situations where the VPN is impractical, access can be accommodated via a proxy server. If you have access to a Linux system, that system can be used to proxy ssh connections to HPC and other resources on campus. The research computing group also maintains a proxy server on an "as time and resources permits" basis. If you have a use case that requires proxy access, please contact us for further information (IT-RC@umb.edu). Setting up your local client to proxy can be done by configuration file, or on the command line. The configuration file is probably the simplest approach, and involves creating an entry in your ssh configuration (~/.ssh/config on Linux, Mac OSX, or Cygwin systems): Host ravana_proxy User          ravanauser HostName      ravana.umb.edu ProxyCommand  ssh proxyuser@<proxyname>.umb.edu -W %h:%p 2> /dev/null In the above, set the Host to any name you want to refer to your connection as.  This will be the 'machine' you ssh to in order to connect via the proxy (e.g. 'ssh ravana_proxy' in the above example).  We recommend that you choose something that is not identical to the actual machine name, in case you want to connect directly.  Replace 'ravanauser' with your username on the remote system that you ultimately want to connect to.  The 'Hostname' should be the fully qualified domain name of the remote system, in this example it refers to the ravana cluster. The proxy command should be edited to show the username of the account on the proxy machine and the fully qualified domain name of the proxy machine. When you connect via the proxy, you will get two password prompts - the first will be for the proxy and the second will be for the remote machine.  These may look identical, so take care to get the passwords correct on the first try.  If you are using ssh keys, your public key (and only your public key) should be on the proxy and remote systems.  Do not put your private key on the proxy. IT Research Computing Healey Library, Lower Level UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Book a Consultation 617.287.5399 It-rc@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms