Awards - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Innovative Teaching Awards Menu menu Menu About Advisory Board Awards Conferences Faculty Seminars Forums Resources Publications Awards Congratulations to Stephanie Hartwell who was awarded the Chancellor's Award for Distinguished Teaching. It has been said by her department that Professor Hartwell truly exemplifies the “teaching soul” that makes UMass Boston a special place. This is evident in her teaching and advising of both undergraduate and graduate students, her mentoring of colleagues and alumni, and her work as a project leader in the community. Professor Hartwell teaches courses, many of which she has developed herself, in the undergraduate Criminal Justice Program and the Applied Sociology MA Program. These courses are reflections of her scholarly focus on social problems, at-risk populations, applied social research, public health, and social justice issues. In addition, Professor Hartwell’s students often have opportunities to work within the community, such as in her collaboration with the Louis D. Brown Peace Institute. Colleagues and students speak of Professor Hartwell’s “unparalleled pedagogical creativity,” her innovative courses with engaging approaches, her inspiring classroom presence, and her enthusiastic commitment to students. Her energy and passion are well-received by students. As one says, “Dr. Hartwell is far and away the best professor I have ever had.” Other current students and alumni describe feeling “lucky” and “privileged” to have Professor Hartwell as both a teacher and an advisor. As Professor Hartwell herself states, she brings her “heart and soul” to teaching, and it is clear that she is not only a distinguished teacher, but that she also distinguishes UMass Boston as a university through her remarkable, impassioned teaching. Center for Innovative Teaching 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms