Institute for New England Native American Studies - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Institute for New England Native American Studies Home Institute for New England Native American Studies Menu menu Menu Institute Staff Overview Publications Presentations Resources Empowering Native Communities through University Scholarship The Institute for New England Native American Studies (INENAS) was established at the University of Massachusetts Boston in June 2009. Our mission is to develop collaborative relationships, projects, and programs between Native American tribes of the New England region and all of the UMass campuses so that the tribes may participate in and benefit from university research, innovation, scholarship, and education. More about our work The Grandparents Raising Grandchildren Program provides information and resources for Native American grandparents who take care of their grandchildren. This program is part of a collaboration between INENAS and the North American Indian Center of Boston . For more information, visit their site or call 617.232.0343. The essay Native Tribal Scholars: Building an Academic Community by J. Cedric Woods appeared in The New England Journal of Higher Education in January 2012. INENAS Newsletter “Welcome to the  newsletter for the Institute for New England Native American Studies. Our mission is to connect regional tribes and Native organizations with university innovation, education, and research. I hope that as you read these updates on ongoing projects and events you can see the mission reflected in all of them" - Dr. Cedric Woods, Director INENAS Newsletter INENAS Newsletter Sign Up Form Connect Follow us on Facebook Read our blog This institute is part of the College of Education and Human Development. Institute for New England Native American Studies Bayside, 4th Floor 150 Mt. Vernon St. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5784 Director: Cedric Woods UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms