Classical Studies BA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Classical Studies BA Home Academics Majors & Programs Classical Studies BA Request Info Loading... Understand the history of ancient Greece and Rome from a multidisciplinary perspective As a student in the Classical Studies program at UMass Boston, you will have the opportunity to explore the rich history and culture of ancient Greece and Rome from a multidisciplinary perspective. Through the study of literature, history, philosophy, art, and archaeology, you will gain a deep understanding of the classical world and its continuing relevance to contemporary society. In this program, you will: Take an interdisciplinary approach to the study of the classical world that combines the study of literature, history, philosophy, art, and archaeology to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the ancient Mediterranean world Engage with complex ideas and texts, and develop your own ideas and perspectives on the classical world and its relevance to contemporary issues Hone your communication and research skills, emerging with the tools you need to effectively present your ideas and research findings in both written and oral formats Plan Your Education How to Apply Apply for Admission Please review the first-year and transfer apply pages for important information about application requirements, deadlines, and application status check. Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students Required Courses Language Requirement (6 to 8 credits): Complete one of the following: Two semesters of Greek at the appropriate level Two semesters of Latin at the appropriate level LATIN 115 - Intensive Elementary Latin Classical Studies Courses (21 Credits): Complete at least seven classical studies courses. Up to two additional Greek or Latin courses beyond those being used to fulfill the language requirement may be applied to this requirement. No first year seminar courses may be applied toward this requirement. With department approval, up to one course from another discipline may be applied to this requirement. Capstone (3 Credits): Take either CLSICS 387 - The Golden Age of Athens or CLSICS 388 - The Golden Age of Rome. The research paper for either of these courses may be used as the capstone paper. Deadlines & Cost Early action deadline: November 1; Regular Decision Deadline: June 15 Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Related Minors Classical Studies Minor Students majoring in another discipline may wish to deepen and enrich their understanding by minoring in classical studies. A total of six courses must be taken to complete the minor program of study. Religious Studies Minor The interdisciplinary religious studies minor entails coursework concerning theories and methods in the study of religion as well as courses focused on a variety of traditions in their global and local contexts. Classics & Religious Studies Learn more about UMass Boston's Classics & Religious Studies department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Classics & Religious Studies College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore the College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms