University Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Writing Center Services For Students University Resources Menu menu Menu About Us Services For Faculty Services For Students Consultations Undergraduate Writing Resources Graduate Writing Resources Student Writing Groups & Retreats University Resources University Resources The Writing Center is only one of many resources available to UMB students. UMB offers a range of resources and support networks. This page containts information and links to some of these resources: Center of Excellence for Veterans - Serves veterans and their dependents through resources, including the Office of Veterans Affairs, the William Joiner Insitute, and the Student Veteran's Center. Healey Library "Questions” page - This webpage offers answers to common questions about Healey Library. There is information for research assistance, research tools, and citation tools. International Student and Scholar Services - ISSS is the university’s liaison to the U.S. governmental agencies concerned with matters relating to international students and scholars studying and working in the United States. Ross Center (Disability Services) - The Ross Center for Disability Services is the entity that approves and coordinates academic accommodations. If you are a student at UMass Boston and have a disability, you may be eligible for accommodations available through the Ross Center. Student Equity, Access, and Support Office - This office houses the Center for Academic Success, The Student Success Scholar Program, Career Services, and the Asian American Resource Office. The Student Equity, Access, and Support office is located in suite 1300 of Campus Center. They may be able to connect you with an academic support program or service. Subject Tutoring Program - The Subject Tutoring Program offers free individual and/or group tutoring for students enrolled in many 100- and 200-level courses in the College of Science and Mathematics and in the College of Liberal Arts. Check their website for information about scheduling and which classes are being offered. U-ACCESS - The mission of U-ACCESS is to help UMass Boston students meet their basic needs so they can achieve academic success. This office also provides leadership development and inspires student agency in mitigating systemic poverty. UMBeInvolved - Provides resources to connect students to clubs, events, and organizations on campus. It also has resources for student organizations. UMB Counseling Center - As a counseling center committed to making sure that all students have access to care regardless of their background, immigration status or how they identify, we feel a particular dedication to renouncing oppression in all it's forms. UMB Health Services - Their multidisciplinary healthcare team is composed of nurse practitioners, consulting physicians, psychologists, social workers, registered nurses, laboratory technicians, and health educators, supported by clinical and administrative support staff. UHS provides both telehealth and on-site health care and mental health services for the UMass Boston Community. Writing Proficiency Requirement - Information about UMB's writing proficiency requirement, including information about WPE tutoring and about EWRAP Writing Center Main location: Campus Center, First Floor, Room 1300 Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.6753 writingcenter@umb.edu Connect Find us on Twitter Find us on Instagram UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms