Give - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute About Give Menu menu Menu About Archived Presentations Give History Olli Staff Teach Contact Courses Events Join Sigs Give to OLLI The Friends of OLLI is a special group whose financial support keeps OLLI vibrant. OLLI at UMass Boston is a financially self-supporting program and does not receive state funding. Membership fees and interest from the Osher Foundation endowment finance a large part of the program, but they do not fully fund our costs. A gift of any size is a gift of knowledge and makes a big difference in the lives of the program and our members. Join the Friends of OLLI today by giving online , or send a check to: University Advancement, UMass Boston, 100 Morrissey Blvd., Boston, MA 02125-3393 Your gift supports the Harry Gloss Scholarship Fund Named in memory of the Harry Gloss, an OLLI founding member, course facilitator, and director, the scholarship allows those who value lifelong learning to participate in OLLI regardless of their financial situation. OLLI Memberships Stumped by what to buy the people over 50 in your life who has everything? Your parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, friends, neighbors, or colleagues? Then do something original and creative—give the gift of OLLI! For only $245 (full membership), $120 (OLLI carte membership), or $65 (general membership), your gift will open the door to exciting learning adventures, special events, and members-only programs. OLLI at UMass Boston will send a gift certificate to the recipient notifying him or her of your gift. Explore and learn more about our membership categories . OLLI Program Fund Your support maintains the program’s affordability and allows us to offer members outstanding courses and moderators, new materials and technologies to reach learners online, special events and travel, and resources to seed new ideas for OLLI’s growth. Planning Your Estate? OLLI at UMass Boston also invites members to consider including the program as part of their estate planning. Consider leaving a gift in your will, giving through a charitable trust, a gift annuity, life insurance, pension plan, IRA or through real estate. There is a wide range of giving vehicles which can provide you income for a lifetime along with valuable tax savings. The university offers a full range of charitable gift planning services. To learn how to make a bequest or other planned gift, contact Anthony Barbuto at 617.388.4558 or at Anthony.Barbuto@umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms