Conflict Resolution Certificate - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Conflict Resolution Certificate Home Academics Majors & Programs Conflict Resolution Certificate Request Info Loading... Train to be an expert mediator, negotiator and facilitator. UMass Boston's Conflict Resolution Graduate Certificate helps you gain conflict resolution, collaborative decision making, and problem-solving skills. Focus on areas such as court mediation, restorative justice, cross cultural conflict, peacebuilding, organizational and international conflict, and more. Careers and Skills The Conflict Resolution graduate programs provide the theoretical foundations and practical skills to advance your current career trajectory or help you transition to a new one. Our alumni work in fields as diverse as business, government, education, health care, and international humanitarian work. Program Strengths Experience an intimate learning environment that fosters close relationships between faculty and students Explore conflict in interpersonal, organizational, intercultural, and international settings Collaborate with our expert faculty of scholars and practitioners committed to student success Gain hands-on experience through in-court mediation, restorative justice, and conflict resolution internships Expand your network and knowledge base with relevant program-sponsored speaker series, conferences, and events Enjoy the flexibility of evening and online asynchronous classes The 12 credit Conflict Resolution Graduate Certificate is offered as in-person program or as an online or hybrid program. Housed within the Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security and Global Governance . Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Two letters of recommendation Official transcripts (completed Bachelor’s degree required) Writing sample - optional Resume/cv Official transcripts (completed Bachelor’s degree required) Statement of purpose - Answer both questions: Describe one or more specific experiences you have had with conflict. What was your role? What were your rewards and frustrations? (500-750 words) How will you apply the skills, knowledge, and perspective acquired through the program in your current and/or future employment? (500-750 words) Please visit the International Graduate Applicants if applicable. Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring (online/hybrid certificate only) Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum This 12 credit graduate certificate degree can be completed in 1 year of full-time study (2 classes per semester) or part-time. The 12 credits will transfer to the Conflict Resolution master's program if you go on to apply and are accepted. Students must attend 5 colloquia to complete program (4 are offered each semester). Online degree seeking students are exempt. Required Courses: CONRES 621 - Negotiation (M) 3 Credit(s) CONRES 623 - Introductory Theory 3 Credit(s) 6 credits of electives: (most are 3 credits except the *court mediation internship is 6 credits) Examples of electives: Cross-Cultural Conflict Conflict Resolution Systems for Organizations Advanced Intervention Dialogue and Facilitation Peace, Conflict, and Education Intervention in Environmental Disputes Conflict in Workgroups Immigration and Conflict Conflict Engagement in Health care Conflict Resolution and Democracy Development in Africa Israeli-Palestine Conflict Dealing with the Past Graduate courses taken in other UMass Boston graduate departments or at other universities may be accepted for transfer credit with prior approval of the Graduate Program Director. * CONRES 690 Court [Mediation] Internship : 40 hours of classroom training and 30 hours of district court mediation, mentoring, and evaluation, meeting all the requirements of the Guidelines for Implementation of Qualification Standards for Neutrals, adopted January 24, 2004, pursuant to Rule 8 of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Uniform Rules on Dispute Resolution. Students who successfully complete one of the mediation certificate options will receive a Certificate of Completion showing completion of the training and mentoring components of mediator qualifications according to those guidelines and M.G.L. Chapter 233 section 23 (Confidentiality Statute). Graduation Criteria Graduation Criteria Complete 12 credits, including two core courses (3 credits each) plus 6 elective credits (most are 3 credits except the court mediation internship is 6 credits). Attend 5 colloquium (4 are offered each semester). Statute of limitations: Three years. Learning Outcomes Gain a thorough grounding in the theory of conflict and its resolution. Explore the social, psychological, political, structural, and cultural factors which give rise to conflict and shape its course. Understand the effects of different types of conflict on people and the relationships among them. Develop skills in the practice, design, and evaluation of a variety of conflict management and resolution applications relevant to a broad range of contexts and group sizes. These skills include nonviolent, collaborative resolution methods, such as mediation, facilitation, negotiation, dialogue, organizational change, and consensual decision making. Related Programs Conflict Resolution MA Contact Graduate Program Director Karen Ross karen.ross [at] umb.edu (617) 287-7489 Conflict Resolution Programs Department conresglobal [at] umb.edu Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Global Governance UMass Boston's Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Global Governance offers a diverse range of programs and research opportunities where you will learn to manage conflict, build security, and govern local and global organizations. Explore Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Global Governance The McCormack School Learn more about the McCormack School, a nationally recognized leader in public service education dedicated to social justice and equity. Explore the McCormack School Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) SARA Compliance, Disclosure & Dispute Resolution UMass Boston programs are designed to meet the requirements for licensure or certification in Massachusetts. Please contact your state licensing or certification board to determine whether the program meets the requirements for licensure or certification in other states. Learn More about SARA UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms