Previous Speakers & Honorees - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Commencement Speakers & Honorary Degrees Previous Speakers & Honorees Menu menu Menu FAQs Speakers & Honorary Degrees Previous Speakers & Honorees Senior Events Photos, Rings & More Faculty Participation Accessibility Information Previous Speakers & Honorees Honorary Degree Recipients Candidates for honorary degrees shall be persons of great accomplishment and high ethical standards who exemplify the ideals of the University of Massachusetts Boston. UMass Boston is fortunate to have such an impressive list of recipients which include government officials, journalists, authors, artists, and athletes. Honorary Degree Recipients Chancellor's Medal For centuries, universities have awarded honorary degrees as ways of recognizing extraordinary achievement and affirming institutional values. Our own university’s policy is typical: the recipients of honorary degrees “shall be persons of great accomplishment and high ethical standards who exemplify the ideals of the University of Massachusetts”; recipients may not, however, hold federal or state elective office in Massachusetts. The Chancellor’s Medal is a similarly high honor, presented to “distinguished leaders, both in the public and the private sectors, and to outstanding members of our campus community, in recognition of meritorious service to the University and the Commonwealth.” Chancellor's Medal Recipients Distinguished Faculty Awards The University of Massachusetts Boston is rightly recognized for the excellence of its faculty. Each year at commencement, we celebrate the accomplishments of faculty members who have demonstrated exceptional contributions in one of the three primary areas of faculty responsibility by presenting them with the Chancellor’s Awards for Distinguished Scholarship, Service and Teaching. Distinguished Scholarship Recipients Distinguished Service Recipients Distinguished Teaching Recipients JFK Award for Academic Excellence The JFK Award was originally discussed in 1976, in conjunction with the John F. Kennedy Library, and was first awarded in 1977. It was designed to be the highest commencement award that an undergraduate could receive. Nominees are evaluated on the basis of their academic record, their service contributions, and their overall contributions as a "citizen" of the university and of the world. The chosen recipient receives a bust of John F. Kennedy, an honorarium, and the opportunity to speak at the main university commencement ceremony. JFK Award Recipients Commencement 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125-3393 USA 617.287.5000 Maps & Directions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms