- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 American Educational Research Association Names UM Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications American Educational Research Association Names UMass Boston Professor One of 12 Fellows for 2020 02/27/2020 |
    Colleen Locke AERA Devoted to Scientific Study of Education and Learning Mark R. Warren is a professor of public policy and public affairs in the McCormack Graduate School. The American Educational Research Association (AERA) today named Mark R. Warren , a professor of public policy and public affairs in the McCormack Graduate School , one of its 2020 AERA fellows. Only 12 scholars were selected for their notable and continuous research achievements. “I am grateful to the AERA for selecting me for this high honor, and I am happy to see that the kind of research that I conduct—community-engaged scholarship that works in deep partnership with parents, young people, and communities struggling for racial equity and social justice—is recognized as highly valued and critically important to the advancement of public education and American democracy,” Warren said. Warren, in his eighth year at UMass Boston, will be inducted alongside the other 2020 fellows on April 18 during the 2020 AERA Annual Meeting in San Francisco. “We are delighted to honor these scholars for their contributions to education research and their dedication to education research and their dedication to the field,” said AERA Executive Director Felice J. Levine. “AERA fellows exemplify the highest standards of excellence through accomplishment, professionalism, and commitment. We welcome the class of 2020 to these prestigious ranks.” Warren is currently on sabbatical from UMass Boston, holding the 2019-2020 SAGE Sara Miller McCune Fellowship at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. During his fellowship year, he is writing a book on the grassroots movement to dismantle the school-to-prison pipeline. The term refers to harsh and racially inequitable school discipline practices that push students, especially young men of color and those with social needs, out of school and into the criminal justice system. Based upon his research on this movement, Warren is developing a new theory of national social movements that work to strengthen and expand local organizing as much as target federal policy. Founded in 1916, AERA is the largest national interdisciplinary research education association devoted to the scientific study of education and learning. There are currently 665 AERA fellows. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms