Iclicker - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Tools Iclicker Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Echo360 Exam Security And Proctoring Google Workspace Gradescope Iclicker Linkedinlearning Pronto Respondus Turnitin Voicethread Web Conferencing Wordpress iClicker Software Update and New Features iClicker Classic is Upgrading to iClicker Cloud iClicker Cloud will be replacing iClicker Classic as the single-supported iClicker instructor software for classes starting in January 2024 . Software Update iClicker Cloud version 5.3.1 (released in December 2022) is now the required minimum version of the Cloud software. The latest version of iClicker Cloud is 5.5.0; this version includes new features (see below) and can be downloaded from the iClicker Download page . New Features iClicker Cloud v 5.5.0 includes the following new features: Groups Manage and facilitate group exercises – including leading groups through consensus building so that all members are heard promoting collaboration in the classroom Enhanced Quizzing iClicker Quizzing now offers a new option with additional question types, question randomization, and answer keys with feedback. Feature Highlight C onfidence Mode o This optional setting for questions encourages students to reflect on their learning and provides instructors with additional real-time insight into student understanding. Interested in new-user training or need a refresher on how to use iClicker? Si gn up for an iClicker Cloud group training . Classroom Polling (iClicker) What is Classroom Polling? Classroom polling can increase student engagement by allowing students to participate in polls and answer questions about the course material during class. It can be used to facilitate more meaningful and interactive learning experiences, by allowing instructors to; Gauge prior student knowledge, before covering new material. Provide student self assessment opportunities. Encourage student discussion: Using iClicker for Group Work . What is iClicker Cloud? iClicker Cloud is an audience response system that is used to provide instant feedback to students. Instructors pose meaningful questions to students in class and students respond to questions with mobile devices or physical remotes. iClicker Cloud supports a number of different Polling Question Types . Polling scores can easily be integrated into the Blackboard grade center to allow students credit for class participation and/or performance. Sign up for iClicker Cloud training iClicker Cloud Requirements: Instructors need: A desktop computer with iClicker Cloud software. The software can be downloaded at iclicker.com . An instructor iClicker account and iClicker course. A classroom with wifi access (for mobile polling). An iClicker base receiver, connected to the presenter computer (if iClicker remotes are used). Note that iClicker bases/receivers are installed in all iClicker Ready (Polling Enabled) Classrooms . Contact Learning Design Services to borrow an iClicker base for unlisted classrooms. Students need: iClicker remotes and/or phones/mobile devices to participate in polling sessions. Student iClicker accounts at iclicker.com . A free iClicker Cloud app for Android or iOS mobile devices is available. An iClicker subscription purchased at iClicker.com .* *Note that students using iClicker remotes must also create iClicker accounts but do not need to purchase iClicker subscriptions. Students using iClicker remotes must add their Clicker remote IDs to their account profiles. iClicker Cloud Setup for Instructors Step 1: Visit the Checklist: Getting Started with iClicker Cloud page to get started. Be sure to use the following instructions to "add grades from iClicker Cloud to your main gradebook" (Blackboard) from "Step 4" of the Checklist: iClicker Roster Grade Sync Step 2: Provide Student Onboarding Resources to your students. iClicker Cloud Setup for Students All students need to create iClicker accounts, and connect them to their Blackboard accounts to use the attendance and polling features. The following resource can be provided to your students to facilitate this process: Student Guide: Grade Sync Integration with Blackboard Visit the iClicker Knowledge Base for solutions to common student issues. Using the iClicker Attendance Only Feature in the Classroom iClicker's attendance feature uses geolocation technology to detect whether your students are in class. iClicker attendance is free when instructors set up attendance-only iClicker classes. iClicker Attendance Feature Overview and Setup Guide See the iClicker Attendance Feature in Action Provide the iClicker Geolocation Tips Student Handout to your students. Using iClicker Cloud for Remote Instruction View the Quickstart Guide: How to use Clicker for Remote Instruction . Be sure to use the following instructions to "add grades from iClicker Cloud to your main gradebook" (Blackboard) from "Step 4" of the Checklist: iClicker Roster Grade Sync . View Creating Assignments in iClicker Cloud . The iClicker assignments feature allows you to create a low stakes quiz from a PowerPoint presentation. The assignments activity type is a flexible, low stakes student engagement solution that can be used for asynchronous learning. Assignments are also great for pre-class, post-class, breakout, or lab activities in synchronous classes. Getting Help Faculty with questions about classroom polling can contact us at learningdesign@umb.edu . Students that need help with iClicker can contact iClicker Support. Faculty that need technical assistance in the classroom can contact the AV Office . Active Learning – Think, Pair, Share How to Create an iClicker Question UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms