Exam Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Return To Campus Teach Exam Resources Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Exam Resources Keeping Up With Content Making Up Missed Work Planning For Missed Exams Staying Connected Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Exam Resources Faculty Listening Session on Exams Alternative Assessments Faculty at UMass Boston have a number of options for administering timed exams on campus. Listed below are the options available along with the associated resources. Blackboard Tests The Tests tool available within Blackboard provides a variety of question types and useful options for administering timed tests. Review these Best Practices for Tests for some tips on making the most of these options. Respondus 4.0 Respondus 4.0 is a software application available for Windows use that facilitates the creation of test questions for uploading to Blackboard. Review Respondus 4.0 resources and request a license . Gradescope Gradescope is a new tool available to faculty that facilitates the administration of paper-based exams through AI-powered digital grading. It is an advanced substitute for “bubble-sheets” that provides additional convenient ways of accepting student work through its Blackboard integration. Visit Gradescope resources . Secure Exam and Proctoring Options Respondus LockDown Browser and Monitor When a more controlled testing environment is required, the university provides access to the Respondus LockDown Browser -- a custom browser that restricts access to outside resources while a student takes an exam deployed through the Tests tool in Blackboard. Respondus Monitor is an optional add-on that builds on the power of Respondus LockDown Browser by using a student’s webcam to record them while taking the exam. Review resources on Respondus LDBM . Tip: Be sure to set up a practice exam for students to get accustomed to the browser and work out any technical issues before the actual exam. Mobile Carts Mobile carts with laptop computers are available upon request to be used by students in your classroom. Be sure to reserve a cart a week in advance of your scheduled test through the Bookit system . System Requirements For a trouble-free testing experience, please remind your students to be sure their devices meet the system requirements for the tools you are using. Chrome and Firefox in their latest versions are the recommended browsers to be used with Blackboard and related tools. Help for Faculty For help with planning a test and/or integrating any of the available options and best practices, get in touch with the Learning Design Services: umb.edu/learningdesign Help for Students Students should be directed to the 24/7 Technical Support line if they experience trouble while taking an exam. If using specialized tools such as Respondus LDBM and Gradescope, refer to the respective resource pages for additional support available. Learning Design Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor Monday—Friday 9 a.m.–5 p.m. Book a Consult Now learningdesign@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms