Policy Reference - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Faculty & Staff Policy Reference Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff FERPA Guidelines Forms Policy Reference Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Policy Reference Page Here are some quick links and info to commonly searched for policies. Where can I access Curriculog - Curriculum Management System Curriculog can be accessed on its website . Where can I find info about Academic Integrity? Please visit the Academic Integrity at UMass Boston page for more info. Why can't I enter an INC grade on my roster? Incomplete grades are processed by the Registrar's Office upon submission of the Incomplete contract by the faculty member. If you need a copy of the contact, please email registrar@umb.edu Incomplete Grade Policy Where do I refer a student who has a disability and needs extra academic support? Information about Disability Services, also know as the Ross Center If you have questions you can email them @ ross.center@umb.edu Where can I find the Attendance Policy? The Attendance Policy can be found on the Class Attendance Policy page. What is the last date of attendance? The University does not require that instructors to take attendance in their courses. The U.S. Department of Education, however, requires ( 34 CFR 668.22 ) the Office of Financial Aid to determine if a student who receives financial aid and fails to earn a passing grade in a course has actually attended and/or completed the course, or if they withdrew from a course without providing the university official notification. In addition, for students who officially withdraw we are required to document that they also began attending the course(s) from which they withdrew in order to determine the type and amount of financial aid they may be eligible to retain. Because a student could be a financial aid applicant at any point during the academic year, we must collect this information for all students, so that financial aid eligibility can be accurately determined. You will be asked to mark one of the following options: Student Completed Class - select this option if student attended class for the entire term and earned an 'F'. Student Never Attended - select this option if student never attended class. Date Student Last Attended - If attendance is regularly taken for your class, use the last date the student attended class. If you do not take attendance, you should provide the date of the last known academically-related activity. Examples of academically-related activities are: taking an examination or quiz, tutorials, computer-assisted instruction, completing an academic assignment, paper, or project, or attending a study group required by the university where attendance is taken. Example : A quiz was given on Tuesday, November 24, 2015 and the student has a grade. After that date, there are no academically-related activities. In this case, the date '11/24/15' is entered as the last date of attendance. FAQ's on Last Date of Attendance What policies and practices exist on campus for use of Pronouns? Instructors can download our informational PDF on Pronouns Policies and Practices for instructors here. Staff can download our informational PDF on Pronouns Policies and Practices for staff here . Where can I find more information on Diversity policies and practices? For more information on Identity-Based Support and Resources at UMass Boston; Please visit All of Us & Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diversity Resources Office of the Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 617.287.6200 registrar@umb.edu 617.287.6242 Registrar Records Area get.records@umb.edu Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms