Womens Political Leadership - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Women in Politics & Public Policy Womens Political Leadership Menu menu Menu About Womens Political Leadership Fellows Program Leadership Archive New Leadership Summer Institute Events Cwppp New England Women’s Policy Initiative Research Resources Support Women’s Political Leadership The Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy (CWPPP) promotes diverse women's political leadership through a number of core programs. The NEW Leadership® political leadership training program was offered virtually for Massachusetts undergraduate women for the first time in 2021. Undergraduate women at two and four-year colleges and universities were eligible to apply. The NEW Leadership™ (NEWL) program was developed by the Center for American Women and Politics (CAWP) at Rutgers University more than 20 years ago, and CAWP still leads the network of NEWL programs around the country. The nonpartisan training program aims to educate college women about the political process, help them recognize the value of civic engagement and the importance of having women in positions of political leadership, and to empower them to become leaders themselves. Program alumnae have gone on to run for public office, work with advocacy organizations on local and national campaigns, and some have even gone on to work on Capitol Hill.  For more information, please email: glpp@umb.edu. CWPPP's Distinguished Public Service Fellows Program was launched in 2016 to build bridges between generations of women in public leadership and prepare the next generation of leaders, with a particular emphasis on advancing the leadership of women of color. We welcomed our third cohort of Fellows beginning their residence in January 2021. The Women’s Public Leadership Archive is a repository documenting the lives and careers of Massachusetts' distinguished women political leadership and other public servants. CWPPP staff and volunteers work with UMass Boston's Healey Library archivists to document and preserve the legacies of women political leaders in the Commonwealth. The Pathways to Political Leadership for Women of Color project was the result of an innovative research partnership between the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy and the Women’s Pipeline for Change. These web pages offer resources to help women of color advance in public leadership roles in Massachusetts. Like the Women's center for Politics and Public Policy on Facebook Like us on Twitter Watch a video on the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Healey Library, 10th Floor, Room 12 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.5541 Maps & Directions The center is affiliated with the McCormack School of Policy and Global Studies . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms