Massachusetts Behavioral Health - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home BIRCh Massachusetts Behavioral Health Menu menu Menu About Online Learning Research Evaluation Massachusetts Behavioral Health Staff Whats New Massachusetts Behavioral Health Table of Contents State resources State resources Safe and Supportive Schools Commission About: The Safe and Supportive Schools Commission, established in 2014 by the State of Massachusetts, works to foster safe, healthy, and inclusive school environments for all Massachusetts students. Members, selected for expertise in the fields of education and behavioral health, meet regularly to make recommendations on effective legislation, evidence-based practices to support student mental health, staff training and professional development, and effective school-family collaboration practices. The Safe and Supportive Schools Commission identifies overall strategies to increase schools’ capacity to implement comprehensive behavioral health services. Highlights: Check out the Safe and Supportive Schools Self-Reflection Tool to aid schools in reflecting on and improving behavioral health supports for students! Learn More & Get Involved: The public is welcome to attend meetings! To learn more about other tools, resources, and recommendations for schools please click HERE BRYT About: BRYT, a program of the Brookline Center for Community Mental Health, is a network of school-based Bridge programs that support students who have missed extensive amounts of learning due to serious mental health and/or medical challenges transition back to school. Bridge programs provide intensive, short-term academic and clinical case management as students gradually return to class, catch up academically, and re-integrate with their peers. With over 130 programs across Massachusetts, BRYT-model Bridge programs are rapidly becoming the norm for Massachusetts secondary schools. Highlights: In schools that implement BRYT-model Bridge programs, 85-90% of students served successfully complete the school year on track for graduation Among students hospitalized before entering Bridge, ≤20% are re-hospitalized School support staff devote more time to the general school population, and school districts save money by decreasing out-of-district placements Learn More & Get Involved: Please contact Sarah Nemetz, Junior Program Specialist, if you are interested in learning more about how to start a Bridge program at your school! To learn more about BRYT please visit the BRYT Website Massachusetts School Mental Health Consortium About: Comprised of 125 districts across MA, MASMHC convenes monthly state-wide and regional meetings for school mental health professionals (guidance counselors, school adjustment counselors, school psychologists, etc.). Past agenda topics have included best practices for mental health screening, quality mental health teaming, and threat assessment, as well as presentations by community partners. Highlights: MASMHC now hold meetings in Western Massachusetts! Learn More & Get Involved: The best way to get involved is to attend a meeting! Check the calendar HERE To learn more about MASMHC and ways to get involved please click HERE Follow MASMHC on Twitter (@MassSMHC) to learn about events, resources, and news regarding student mental health in Massachusetts MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Education - Office of Student and Family Supports (SFS) About: SFS works with Massachusetts K-12 schools to support healthy and safe learning environments for students. Current SFS priorities include: 1) Early Learning, 2) Educational Stability, 3) Extended Learning Opportunities, 4) Adolescent HIV/STD Prevention, 5) Safe & Healthy Learning Environments, and 6) Service Learning. SFS provides resources, information, self-assessment/implementation tools, and grants to promote best practices in within these areas. Highlights: Learn more about the McKinney Vento Homelessness Education Assistance Act Learn More & Get Involved: Click HERE to learn more about all SFS programs, initiatives, and opportunities for your school Please contact Rachelle Engler Bennett, Associate Commissioner, to learn more Boston Children’s Hospital Neighborhood Partnerships – Training & Access Projects About: The Training and Access Project (TAP) provides consultation and professional development to support Boston schools in addressing student social, emotional, and behavioral health needs. TAP establishes two-year partnerships with five new schools every year at no cost to schools. In addition, TAP provides free online trainings for all school professionals. Learn More & Get Involved: Visit the TAP website to learn more! Register for free online training HERE Children’s Behavioral Health Initiative (CBHI) In response to the Rosie D. class action lawsuit, MassHealth Office of Behavioral Health established the CBHI, a community-based system of care to support MassHealth eligible children with social, emotional, and behavioral needs. CBHI partners with Community Service Agencies (CSA) across Massachusetts to provide an array of services to children and families including: In home therapy and behavioral services Family support and training Intensive care coordination Therapeutic mentoring Mobile crisis intervention Learn More & Get Involved: A more extensive description of services and eligibility, as well as comprehensive list of CSA locations can be found HERE . The Massachusetts Behavioral Health Access Website ( HERE ) is a great resource for finding CBHI providers. Attend System of Care meeting hosted by your local CSA! MassHealth School-Based Medicaid Programs (SBMP) As of July 1, 2019, an expanded array of services provided in schools will be eligible for reimbursement from MassHealth. Reimbursements will be made to Local Education Agencies (LEAs) (i.e. public board of education). For most school/districts, this means that the reimbursement will go to the city/town. For charter schools, regional school districts, and vocational/technical schools, the reimbursement will go directly to the school/district. Learn More & Get Involved: To learn more, please click HERE Massachusetts Organization of Education Collaboratives (MOEC) According Massachusetts legislation, school districts may form collaboratives to address the special education needs of their students. These collaboratives, represented by MOEC, provide specialized therapeutic and educational programs and services. Learn More & Get Involved: To learn more about MOEC, please click HERE To find programs/services provided by the collaboratives, please click HERE To learn more about how to form/amend a collaborative, please click HERE Massachusetts Family Resource Centers (FRC) The FRCs across Massachusetts, funded by Massachusetts Executive Office of Health and Human Services in collaboration with the Department of Children and Families, provide free support groups, parenting programs, early childhood services, information and referral resources, and education for families with children from birth to 18 years old. Learn More & Get Involved: Find your local FRC HERE ! Network of Care Massachusetts Network of Care Massachusetts includes a directory of over 5,000 programs and organizations across the Commonwealth, searchable by keyword and zip code and categorized according to type of support. To learn more, please click HERE ! Please subscribe to our mailing list HERE . Behavioral Health Integrated Resources for Children Project 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms