Scholarships for Transfers - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Scholarships for Transfers Menu menu Menu Apply for Financial Aid Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Outside Scholarships Scholarships for Continuing Students Scholarships for Transfers Scholarships Faq Graduate Student Financial Aid Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships Scholarships for Transfers Have questions about scholarships? Schedule a one-on-one appointment with us. As a transfer student, there are a number of scholarships available to help support your education. Apply early, even if you are still completing courses at your previous institution. See each scholarship below for more details on requirements and deadlines. Transfer Scholarship Awards range from $500 to $2,000. You are eligible if you are: A new transfer student starting your first semester at UMass Boston in the Spring 2025 semester (The fall 2024 semester deadline has passed and we are no longer accepting applications for that start term). You must have an application for admission on file for an upcoming semester to complete this application. Apply Online Deadline: December 1 , 2024 The Foster Furcolo Scholarship Program This scholarship was established to honor Foster Furcolo, who served as governor of Massachusetts from 1957 to 1960. He was instrumental in the creation of the system of public community colleges in the Commonwealth. It awards two-year scholarships covering tuition and most mandatory fees to one graduate of each public community college in Massachusetts. You are eligible if you: Exemplify the success of the community college system in accomplishing the educational mission envisioned by Governor Furcolo Earned an associate’s degree with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.5 Are Massachusetts resident Are a first time, full-time student enrolling for fall semester immediately following graduation from the community college Are graduating from your community college in the spring preceding fall entrance at UMass Boston Nomination Procedure Each community college president may select one student for recommendation and submit a letter describing the nominee’s qualifications for the Furcolo Scholars to the Office for Merit-Based Scholarships. The letter may come from the transfer and/or advising officer at each community college. Contact the office of your community college president for consideration. Final selection will be determined by UMass Boston. Not all nominees will be offered scholarships. Nominated students may not have attended UMass Boston in the past. Deadline: May 1 The Osher Reentry Scholarship This scholarship awards up to $5,000 per year and is potentially renewable. You are eligible if you are: Starting at UMass Boston for the first time Resuming college after a gap of approximately five years. This gap does not need to be consecutive. You may have been in and out of school, but should have a total of five years away from higher education and be eager to complete your degree at UMass Boston now. Completing a first bachelor's degree Looking forward to a significant number of years in the workforce after graduation Not enrolling in a fully online degree program You must have a application for admission on file for an upcoming semester to complete this application. Apply Online Deadline: December 15 for students entering in the Spring 2025 semester (The Fall 2024 deadline has passed). Community College Advantage Scholarship (CCAS) The Community College Advantage Scholarship (CCAS) is awarded to the top 10 percent of community college spring graduates who enroll at a University of Massachusetts campus. Students are awarded a minimum of $2,500 per semester ($5,000 annually) for a total of two years (if allowable in your financial aid package). To be eligible for the CCAS, students must: Complete their degree in the top 10 percent of their graduating class at their community college. For fall semester applicants, selection is based upon GPA calculated at the end of the semester prior to the UMass financial aid priority deadline (i.e. students applying for fall 2024 admission must have been in the top 10 percent of their class as of the end of the fall 2023 semester). Qualified students will be notified of their eligibility by their community college. Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or equivalent state financial aid application. Be eligible for in-state tuition. Have earned 45+ credits that are transferable to UMass. Be on track to complete their associate’s degree prior to accepted fall term. Complete the Interest Form as provided in the invitation email from your Community College. MassTransfer Tuition Credit This scholarship is a tuition credit of up to $1,714 per year, renewable for up to two years while enrolled at UMass Boston. You are eligible if you: Are a MassTransfer student who has completed an associate's degree at an approved Massachusetts Community College Have achieved a GPA of 3.0 Enroll at UMass Boston within one year of completion of associate's degree Read more information at the MassTransfer website . The New England Transfer Association Scholarship This scholarship is run by the New England Transfer Association, is potentially renewable, and awards $1,000 to up to six local transfer students each year. You are eligible if you: Have a minimum GPA of 3.25 Are eligible to receive an associate’s degree during the 2021-2022 academic year Successfully complete 30 credits from the sending institution Transfer from a NETA affiliated two-year school to a NETA affiliated four-year school in either the spring or fall semester of 2022. Current two year NETA affiliated schools include: Bristol Community College, Bunker Hill Community College, CCRI, Holyoke Community College, Housatonic Community College,Massasoit Community College,MassBay Community College,Middlesex Community College,Northern Essex Community College, Northern Maine Community College, Quinsigamond Community College, Three Rivers Community College, Tunxis Community College For all questions regarding the New England Transfer Association Scholarship application and selection process, contact president@newenglandtransfer.org . Deadline: Apply by April 1 each year Apply The Alray Scholars Program - Deadline June 1 The Alray Scholars program is an outside scholarship not administered by UMass Boston that some of our students have used in the past to help fund their education. If selected as a recipient awards range from $1,000 to $4,000. You may be eligible if you: Graduated from a Boston public high school or a Boston charter high school, or received a GED after attending one of these schools; or graduated from the Metco program while residing in Boston Enrolled and started a college, trade school, or vocational program after completing high school Left their educational program (without completing) due to a range of family, personal or educational reasons Used their time away from your educational program productively, such as being involved in a variety of community, school and work activities How to Apply : Please visit: https://alray.org/apply/ and click start your application. We also encourage you to explore Outside Scholarships . Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms