Timothy.Werner - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Timothy.Werner Timothy Werner Department: SFE - Dean's Office Title: Hourly Research Fellow Research and Adjunct Faculty Send Email Website Biography I am a marine zoologist, fisheries scientist, and conservation biologist. My research currently focuses on identifying bycatch solutions for marine wildlife that also support the livelihoods of fishermen and coastal communities. My appointments include Fisheries Scientist on the U.S. NMFS Pelagic Longline Take Reduction Team, member of the U.S. Atlantic Large Whale Reduction Team, and member of the Expert Panel for the International Whaling Commission’s Bycatch Mitigation Initiative. Area of Expertise Conservation Biology Fisheries Science Invertebrate Zoology and Phlyogenetics Business Management Degrees Boston University - PhD, Biology (2018) Stanford University, Graduate School of Business - MS, Business Management (2001) University of Maryland - MS, Marine Zoology (1997) Boston University - BA, History (cum laude) (1985) Professional Publications & Contributions Sample publications: Berninsone, L., P., Berninsone, L., P. Bordino, M. Gnecco, M. Foutel, A.I. Mackay, and T.B. Werner . 2020. Switching gillnets to hand-lines: An alternative to mitigate the bycatch of Franciscana dolphins ( Pontoporia blainvillei ) in Argentina. Frontiers in Marine Science. Baumgartner, M., Werner T ., and Moore, M. 2019. Urgent need for ropeless fishing: Removing end lines to protect right whales. Sea Technology 60(3):23-27. Howle, L.E., S.D. Kraus, T.B. Werner and D.P. Nowacek. 2019. Simulation of the entanglement of a North Atlantic Right whale ( Eubalaena glacialis ) with fixed fishing gear. Werner, T.B. 2019. Ropeless fishing: Testing an innovative prototype for preventing whale entanglements. Final Grant Report to the U.S. Marine Mammal Commission. 13pp. Werner, T.B. and R. Malloy, Jr. 2018. Field Testing an Electric Decoy for Reducing Elasmobranch Bycatch in Longline Fisheries. Final Report to NOAA under Award # NA15NMF4270282. 25 pp. Knowlton, A.R., R. Malloy, Jr., S.D. Kraus, and T.B. Werner . 2018. Development and Evaluation of Reduced Breaking Strength Rope to Reduce Large Whale Entanglement Severity. Final Report to the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, Commonwealth of Massachusetts, under MMARS #: CT EVN 0607160000 000 000 3938 66 pp. Werner, T. and K. McLellan-Press. 2017. Global Assessment of Large Whale Entanglement and Bycatch Reduction in Fixed Fishing Gear. Final Grant Report to NOAA under Award #NA15NMF4630357. 86 pp. Knowlton, A.R., Robbins, J., Landry, S., McKenna, H.A., Kraus, S.D., and T.B. Werner. 2016. Implications of fishing rope strength on the severity of large whale entanglements. Conservation Biology, 30 (2):318-328. Werner, T.B., S. Northridge, K.M. Press, and N. Young. 2015. Mitigating bycatch and depredation of marine mammals in longline fisheries. ICES Journal of Marine Science 72 (5):1576-1586. Bordino P., A.I. Mackay, T.B. Werner , S.P. Northridge, and A.J. Read. 2013. Franciscana bycatch is not reduced by acoustically reflective or physically stiffened gillnets. Endangered Species Research 21:1-12. Reeves R.R., K. McClellan, and T.B. Werner. 2013. Marine mammal bycatch in gillnet and other entangling net fisheries, 1990-2011. Endangered Species Research 20:71-97. Žydelis, R., B.P. Wallace, E.L. Gilman, and T.B. Werner . 2009. Conservation of marine megafauna requires avoiding and minimizing fisheries bycatch. Conservation Biology 23(3):608-616. Werner, T ., S. Kraus, A. Read, and E. Zollett. 2006. Fishing techniques to reduce the bycatch of threatened marine animals. Marine Technology Society Journal 40(3):50-68. Dutra, G.F., G.R. Allen, T. Werner and S.A. McKenna (eds.). 2005. A Rapid Marine Biodiversity Assessment of the Abrolhos Bank, Bahia, Brazil. RAP Bulletin of Biological Assessment 38. Conservation International, Washington, DC. Allen, G.R. and T.B. Werner . 2002. Coral reef fish assessment in the ‘coral triangle’ of southeastern Asia. Environmental Biology of Fishes 65:209-214. Roberts, C. M., McClean, C. J., Veron, J. E. N., Hawkins, J. P., Allen, G. R., McAllister, D. E., Mittermeier, C., Schueler, F.W., Spalding, M., Weels, F., Vynne, C., and T . B. Werner . 2000. Marine biodiversity hotspots and conservation priorities for tropical reefs. Science 295:1280-1284. Werner, T.B. and Allen, G.R. (eds.). 2000. A rapid marine biodiversity assessment of the Calamianes Islands, Palawan Province, Philippines. RAP Bull. Biol. Assess. 17. Washington, DC: Conservation International. 129 pp. Werner, T.B. and G. Allen (eds.). 1998. A Rapid Biodiversity Assessment of the Coral Reefs of Milne Bay Province, Papua New Guinea. RAP Working Papers 11. Conservation International, Washington, DC. Additional Information I collaborate with fishermen, engineers, marine biologists, governments, and others to evaluate novel fishing practices, while also working internationally to promote commmunity-based solutions in fisheries management. In addition, I maintain the Global Bycatch Exchange ( bycatch.org ) which was recognized by a Katerva Award in Ecosystem Conservation. In addition to my current research focus, I have spent many years advancing conservation objectives on land and in ocean environments, particularly in the South Pacific and Latin America. As part of this work I have logged hundreds of hours diving in Asia, the south Pacific, and the Atlantic, assessing marine biodiveristy to make the scientific case for their conservation. Futhermore, I have used these and other approaches to create marine and terrestrial protected areas and establishing connunty-based businesses as alternatives to large-scale environmental destruction. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms