Academic Departments - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Business Academic Departments Menu menu Menu Message from the Dean Student Resources Academic Departments Accounting & Finance Management Management Science & Information Systems Marketing Faculty & Staff Research & Impact BEST Boston Departments The College of Management offers two undergraduate degrees and six graduate degree programs. Programs consist of coursework from each of four following departments. Accounting & Finance UMass Boston's Department of Accounting & Finance has a cutting-edge curriculum that is designed to keep pace with the fast changes in the Accounting and Finance industry. Classes are taught by dedicated faculty that focuses on student success. Careful attention is paid to providing rigorous academic knowledge and preparing students to be critical thinkers and thought leaders in their careers. Accounting & Finance Department Management UMass Boston's Department of Management is a diverse group of scholars and practitioners who are interested in the core management issues of human behavior in organizations, entrepreneurship, organizational strategy, and the complex relationships between business and society. Our classes and programs provide in-depth training on a range of skills that are critical for organizational effectiveness and addressing the most pressing societal challenges. Management Department Management Science & Information Systems UMass Boston's Department of Management Science and Information Systems offers academic programs that focus on information technology, business analytics, and supply chain . Management Science & Information Systems Department Marketing Marketing is an organizational function and a set of processes for creating, communicating, and delivering value to customers, and for managing customer relationships in ways that benefit the organization and its stakeholders. It contributes directly to achieve profit and growth for the company. A focus in marketing allows students to find opportunities in local, national, and international businesses, as well as in government and nonprofit organizations. Career paths lead from entry points in retail, sales, services marketing, marketing research and database management, advertising, promotion, product management, brand management, customer relations, and direct and electronic marketing. Marketing Department UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms