Admitted Students - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Admitted Students Admitted Students menu Admitted Students Admitted Student Checklist Submit Your Deposit Undergraduate Forms Graduate Forms Housing & Dining We are Beacons. Now, you're one too. The truth is, you’re only just getting started. You’ve got an exciting journey ahead, filled with all kinds of opportunities. Like researching more effective ways to protect the Boston Harbor against climate change. Tracing the historical roots of school segregation in Washington D.C. Studying female self-portraiture through a feminist lens. Whatever question, problem, or practice ignites you, we will be here to fuel the fire. That’s what Beacons do. Admitted Students menu Admitted Students Admitted Student Checklist Submit Your Deposit Undergraduate Forms Graduate Forms Housing & Dining Watch Video We Are UMass Boston We were built out of unique times for unique times. Our campus reflects our diverse, complex world. And we've made it our unwavering commitment to bring education to all. Because that's what Beacons do. We bring knowledge and light to where there is not. We see progress in potential, and potential in progress. Here's what happens next. You're on your way, but there are a few important next steps to becoming a part of the UMass Boston community. Submit Your Deposit Let’s make it official. Let us know you’re coming. Sign Up for Orientation Get to know all the ins and outs of this amazing campus and community. Admitted Student Checklist Stay on track! We've compiled all your important next steps here. A community unlike any other. There's an energy to this place that's hard to explain. Always alive, active, in motion. Students from all over the U.S. and the world. Unparalleled research opportunities. Over 100 clubs and students orgs. And 120+ acres overlooking the Boston Harbor. We can’t wait for you to be part of it. Until then, we invite you to learn more about us—there's a lot to take in. 100+ Programs of Study Find what lights your fire. 100+ Clubs & Student Groups Whatever you’re into, we’ve got you covered. A One-Stop Solutions Spot Your guide to all things financial aid and beyond. Beacon Gateway is the hub for all your next steps! Beacon Gateway is the admissions portal for accepted students. Here, you can submit your New Student Deposit and Housing Reservation Fee, register for Orientation, complete health forms, sign up for placement exams, and more. Please note: on-campus housing is prioritized for full-time first-year students. Head to Beacon Gateway Experience UMass Boston Visit our campus to experience UMass Boston's vibrant atmosphere and rich opportunities. Immerse yourself in our diverse community and envision yourself as a part of the Beacon community. In-Person Campus Tours Schedule an in-person tour of UMass Boston's campus to experience the vibrant community firsthand. Connect with Your Counselor Interested in speaking one-on-one with an admissions counselor? Schedule a 15- or 30-minute phone or Zoom chat to get your questions answered. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms