Our Offerings - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Health Services Wellness Our Offerings Menu menu Menu About Emergencies Health Happenings Counseling Center General Medicine Wellness Upcoming Events Our Offerings Staff and Faculty Wellness Workshop Requests Resources Patient Resources Immunizations & Health Requirements Forms Billing My Health Beacon Portal General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu Health & Wellness Offerings at UMass Boston Discover the array of resources and upcoming events designed to support your well-being and enhance your campus experience. Schedule a COVID/Flu Shot with Osco Pharmacy for 9/23 & 9/30 Here! Schedule a Vision Exam with 20/20 Onsite for 9/26 Here! KORU Mindfulness ® KORU Mindfulness is a national program developed at Duke University by mental health professionals, tailored to meet the needs of college students. It equips students with immediate tools to manage stress and improve overall well-being. View Upcoming Drop-Ins Here! The Benefits of Mindfulness Mindfulness and meditation practices offered in KORU sessions can enhance sleep quality, reduce stress, build resilience, and improve relationships. Studies also show potential benefits in memory and academic performance. Drop-In Sessions Life can be hectic; take a moment for quiet reflection at our drop-in mindfulness sessions. Whether you attend regularly or occasionally, these sessions are open to all UMass Boston students, staff, and faculty. View upcoming drop-ins here! Please email wellness@umb.edu if you would like to request a specific time or share your interest. Mental Health First Aid Training MHFA teaches participants how to recognize and respond to signs of mental health challenges and substance use disorders among adults. Gain skills to support peers in crisis and connect them with appropriate resources. Interested in signing up for Mental Health First Aid for you or your team? Email Beatriz.Louzado@umb.edu . About Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) Training Objectives Participants will learn to identify symptoms, interact with individuals in crisis, and practice self-care techniques. Who Should Attend? Ideal for student leaders, faculty, staff, coaches, and anyone working with young adults. Narcan Kits (Drug Harm Reduction Kits) Narcan (naloxone) is a life-saving drug that reverses opioid overdoses by blocking opioid receptors in the brain. Free Narcan Kits are available to all UMass Boston community members at UHS. The Importance of Narcan Carrying Narcan provides critical support in emergencies, potentially saving lives before professional help arrives. How to Use Narcan Learn how to use Narcan from a UHS provider during pickup and through our instructional resources in all kits! Below are some additional resources: Use Narcan Video | MassDPH Stop an Overdose with Naloxone | MassDPH Obtaining a Narcan Kit at UHS UMass Boston students, staff, and faculty can access free drug harm reduction kits, which include Narcan, fentanyl, and xylazine test strips, and overdose prevention information. To Request a Narcan Kit (Drug Harm Reduction Kit): Call UHS General Medicine's front desk (617-287-5660) and say that you want to pick up Narcan. (You do not need to provide your name) Our team will put you on the schedule with a UHS provider. Our receptionists will ask you to ask for that specific provider when you come in. At the Time of Pickup: Arrive at UHS General Medicine (Quinn Administration, 2nd Floor) and let the receptionists know you are there to see [provider's name] . The provider will call and bring you to a patient room to review the kit's contents for a few minutes. sExpress (Safer Sex Delivery) Enjoy discreet access to free safer sex supplies through our sExpress service. Order online for delivery to your Parcel Pending locker (for on-campus residents only) or pick up at University Health Services. About sExpress Through an online form , students can order a variety of materials to be discretely delivered to their Parcel Pending Lockers OR order to be picked up at UHS. sExpress is a great way to learn and try out new products. Available Supplies Include: Emergency contraception (Levonorgestrel Tablet 1.5 mg) Latex and latex-free external condoms Flavored latex dental dams Personal lubricant Pregnancy tests Educational resources on consent, STIs, and HIV testing and prevention How to Order Complete our online form and receive your supplies within 2 business days! Click on the order form and sign in. Fill out the order form. You will get an email when your envelope will be delivered to the Residence Halls or be available for pickup at UHS. Need Supplies ASAP? Students can get free condoms in the UHS Lobby (Quinn Building 2nd Floor). Students can also access emergency contraception for free by appointment at UHS. Substance Use and Addictive Behaviors Support Group (SUAB) Join our bi-weekly support group designed for individuals navigating addictive substances and behaviors. Find community, share experiences, and access resources for recovery and beyond. For inquiries, email Beatriz.Louzado@umb.edu . View upcoming meetings here! The Checkup: UHS Quarterly Newsletters Stay informed with our quarterly newsletters covering health updates and upcoming events. Sign up for future newsletters to stay connected with UHS initiatives. Issue 1: Fall 2023 Issue 2: Spring 2024 Issue 3: Fall 2024 Sign Up for Future Newsletters Explore these offerings and participate in upcoming events to prioritize your health and well-being at UMass Boston. For more information, contact wellness@umb.edu . General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms