Staff and Volunteers - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Development & Education Camp Shriver & Community Programs Staff and Volunteers Menu menu Menu People Research & Evaluation Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Impact Report, Mission, Model & Evaluation Summer Stars Saturday Camp Staff and Volunteers Boston Marathon Team TCS New York City Marathon Team International Marathons and Premier Race Events Thrive for Shriver Challenge Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner Media Packet And Publications Best Practices for Inclusive Camps Center Academics Camp Staff & Volunteers Applications for 2024 are now open! Apply today! Applicants are asked to read and respond to " Best Practices in Inclusive Camping: A Roundtable Discussion in Programming ” as part of their application. Download a copy here . Camp Shriver is staffed by a camp director, counselors, interns, adaptive physical educators, special educators, and staff from the UMass Boston Center for Social Development and Education and University Health Services. Volunteers are drawn from the surrounding community and the UMass Boston campus.  Members of the staff are familiar with the needs of campers with disabilities and are trained to instruct all campers in the sports offered.Members of the camp staff will be responsible for working each day of camp, Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., as well as a two-day staff orientation session that will be held before the start of camp in in June. Camp Shriver also has an educational internship program, designed to help high school students best prepare themselves for a college or career concentration in working with children, especially children with disabilities. Learn more about this program here . Mark Spolidoro, Camp Director Mark Spolidoro has been an adapted physical education teacher for over 25 years with the Boston Public Schools while also filling the role of the coordinator for Special Olympics Massachusetts/Unified Sports for the past decade. He graduated with a bachelor of science in physical education and health from the University of Rhode Island and continued his education at UMass Boston, receiving a teacher’s certification in moderate special needs education. Spolidoro was an all-state athlete in Baseball in Rhode Island and played baseball at the University of Rhode Island. He is still involved in sports as a youth football, basketball and baseball coach. He remains physically active by participating in adult basketball and softball leagues while enjoying playing golf with family and friends. Connect Like Camp Shriver on Facebook Sign up for Camp Shriver's seasonal newsletter UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms