Protests and Demonstrations Advanced Notification Form - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Event Services Reservation & Space Use Policies Protests and Demonstrations Advanced Notification Form Menu menu Menu Our Office Our Event Venues Our Services For External Clients & Conferences For Departments For Student Organizations Reservation & Space Use Policies Reserving Space Protests and Demonstrations Advanced Notification Form Process of Notification All Demonstration Organizers must notify the University of their intent by completing the Protest and Demonstration Advanced Notification form. Demonstration Organizers not employed or enrolled with the University must provide notice of the protest or demonstration by submitting a completed Protest and Demonstration Advanced Notification Form to the Event Services Office no less than five business days in advance. University employees or enrolled students organizing demonstrations may be given an exemption from the five-day advanced notice requirement if the demonstration is in response to news or recent developments that became public within the last 24 hours (see “D. Impromptu Protest or Demonstration”). In these cases, organizers must submit a completed Protest and Demonstration Advanced Notification Form to the Event Services Office. The University will work with the organizers to ensure compliance with all other policy requirements Policy Compliance Demonstration Organizers must take reasonable steps to ensure that all participants comply with the Protest and Demonstration Policy. Campus community members who violate this policy may be subject to administrative disciplinary action. Organizers and participants not employed or enrolled with the University may be subject to relocation or removal from campus. Any participant involved in disruptive or otherwise illegal activity may face criminal charges and be liable for damages and related expenses. Demonstration Organizers must ensure that maximum occupancy limits are always observed. Demonstration Organizers must present a copy of the completed Protest and Demonstration Advanced Notification Form to any University official upon request on the day of the protest or demonstration. Demonstration Organizers may be required to provide a general liability insurance certificate if the demonstration or protest poses significant risk or liability concerns. Demonstration Organizers accept responsibility for reimbursing the University for the cost of cleaning, repairing, or replacing any damaged University property, as well as any associated staff hours. Primary Organizer First Name: Last Name: Phone: Email Address: City: State: Postal Code: Organizer is enrolled or employed by the University: Enrolled Employed No Organization Information Organization Name: Do you have additional organizers? 1 2 3 Person 1 First Name: Last Name: Phone: Person 2 First Name: Last Name: Phone: Person 3 First Name: Last Name: Phone: Protest Information Date of Protest/Demonstration: Time of Protest/Demonstration: Time of Protest/Demonstration: Anticipated Headcount: Locations Stationary Demonstrations: Campus Center Campus Center Lawn Campus Entrance Skylight Park Plaza Terrace 1-1500 University Drive West Mobile Demonstration: March, parade, procession Please indicate planned route on campus. Additional Protest Information Nature of Protest/Demonstration: Will the Protest/Demonstration involve the use of amplified sound equipment? Yes No Please list the type of amplified devices: (speakers, bullhorns, etc...) Security needs and/or plans to address disorderly or disruptive conduct during protest or demonstration: Other considerations: Acknowledgement: As the Primary Organizer, I acknowledge that I have read, and agree to abide by, the University Space Use Policy. Check this: Choice A reCAPTCHA helps prevent automated form spam. The submit button will be disabled until you complete the CAPTCHA. Contact Information UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms