Instruments Platforms - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni The CaPE Lab Home CaPE Lab Instruments Platforms Menu menu Menu About Instruments Platforms Rv Marindin Rv Portnoy People Publications Research Whats New Instruments & Platforms Acoustic Instruments The CaPE Lab has a suite of acoustic and ancillary instruments that are the backbone of our Seafloor Mapping Program. This equipment allows us to visualize the surface of the ocean floor using acoustic instruments use of sound reflectance and identify objects, track changes, and make bathymetric maps. The primary instrument is the Edgetech 6205, a phase-measuring, dual frequency (550/1600 kHz) sidescan sonar. which allows us to acquire two resolutions of side scan imagery as well as swath bathymetry. The sonar is paired with the Teledyne TSS DMS-05, our motion reference unit (MRU). This device measures the six degrees of freedom, or heave, pitch and roll of the sonar throughout hydrographic surveys, so it can accurately represent the location of each sounding on the seafloor as the boat is moving. Along with this, we use the HemisphereGPS VS 110 vector sensor to accurately measure vessel heading and the Trimble R10 RTK-GPS for 3-dimensional positioning, or latitude, longitude and elevation, to within an inch! When all of these pieces of equipment come together on one of our research vessels we are able to create high resolution sonar images and bathymetric maps of coastal areas in water depths from 20 meters to as little as 0.5 m! Sonars Edgetech 6205 Phase-Measuring Sidescan Sonar Edgetech 4125 Sidescan Sonar Ancillary Equipment Teledyne TSS DMS-05 Motion Sensor Motion Reference Unit HemisphereGPS VS 110 Vector Sensor Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler (ADCP) Teledyne RDI Sentinel V20 (1000kHz) Unmanned Aerial Systems The CaPE Lab creates high resolution, georeferenced maps using our Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS), more commonly known as drones. Our primary UAS is our BirdsEyeView Aerobotics FireFLY6 Pro. This piece of technology is a fixed-wing, vertical takeoff and landing (VTOL) UAS capable of covering up to 600 acres in one flight. With its built in RTK-GPS and exchangeable payload, the FireFLY is able to collect high-resolution photos, near-infrared, and red edge data. This is done using a Sony a6000 digital camera and a MicaSense RedEdge. Along with the FireFLY, we use a DJI Phantom 4 Pro, this small, but powerful UAS is very easy to use and can create the same final products as the FireFLY, excluding those using the near-IR and red edge spectral bands. The photogrammetry collected from the UAS platforms in the CaPE Lab can be used to create georeferenced 3D point clouds, orthomosaics, digital terrain models (DTM), and digital surface models (DSM). BirdsEyeView FireFLY6 PRO DJI Phantom IV PRO Other Instruments Trimble R10 RTK-GPS Trimble R8 RTK-GPS Tritech PA500 Altimeter (500kHz) Sontek Castaway CTD blue C designs blueDrop Free-Fall Penetrometer Vessels R/V Marindin R/V Portnoy The CaPE Lab 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 617.287.5000 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms