Maps - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Admissions Visit UMass Boston Maps Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Maps Where To Stay The College Tour Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented Campus Maps UMass Boston's main campus is located at 100 Morrissey Boulevard, Boston, MA 02125. Below are some useful maps for navigating the campus. For additional tips on reaching campus, see Getting Here . Interactive Campus Map Transportation Map ( Download printable Campus Map ) Directions Public Transportation Subway: Take the MBTA Red Line to JFK/UMass station. A free shuttle bus will carry you to campus. Commuter Rail: Take the MBTA Commuter Rail to the JFK/UMass station from the South Shore on the Middleboro, Plymouth, and Greenbush lines. A free shuttle bus will carry you to campus. Bus: Take the 8 bus or 16 bus directly to campus. MBTA buses stop at the busway behind Wheatley Hall and at various points on Mt. Vernon Street. Campus Shuttle Bus The university runs a regular, free shuttle bus service to campus from the JFK/UMass MBTA stop and the Bayside lot. See the shuttle schedule and route information . You can also track the shuttle online . Shuttle Service is available every day except Thanksgiving, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day. Official UMass Boston Campus Map January 2024 By Car From the North To Campus: Take Interstate 93 South through Boston to Exit 15 (Columbia Road/JFK Library). Take a left at the end of the ramp onto Columbia Road, and then take your first right in the rotary. Follow the University of Massachusetts signs along Columbia Road and Morrissey Boulevard to campus. To the UMass Boston Bayside Lot: Take Interstate 93 South through Boston to Exit 15 (Columbia Road/JFK Library). Take a left at the end of the ramp onto Columbia Road. Go straight into the rotary. Take the second exit (a right) onto Day Blvd. Take your first left onto Mt. Vernon Street. The UMass Boston Bayside Lot is straight ahead, past the DoubleTree, on your left. Take the shuttle bus to campus. From the South To Campus: Take Interstate 93 North to Exit 14 (Morrissey Boulevard/JFK Library) and follow Morrissey Boulevard north to campus. When driving to campus from the south please take note of up-to-date parking information that is displayed on a large electronic sign on Morrissey Blvd. North before you get to the campus entrance. This sign will help you make informed decisions about where to park for the day. To the UMass Boston Bayside Lot: Follow Morrissey Blvd., passing the front of BC High School instead of turning onto the campus. Turn right at the first intersection to Mt. Vernon Street. The UMass Boston Bayside Lot will be on your left. Take the shuttle bus to campus. From the West To Campus: Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Interstate 90) east to Interstate 93. Take I-93 South one mile to Exit 15 (JFK Library/South Boston/Dorchester). Take a left at the end of the ramp onto Columbia Road, and then take your first right in the rotary. Follow the University of Massachusetts signs along Columbia Road and Morrissey Boulevard to campus. To the UMass Boston Bayside Lot: Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Interstate 90) east to Interstate 93. Take I-93 South one mile to Exit 15 (JFK Library/South Boston/Dorchester). Take a left at the end of the ramp onto Columbia Road. Go straight into the rotary. Take the second exit (a right) onto Day Blvd. Take your first left onto Mt. Vernon Street. The UMass Boston Bayside Lot is straight ahead, past the DoubleTree, on your left. Take the shuttle bus to campus. Parking Fees Rates vary depending on location and duration and are subject to change. Prepaid passes are also available for students, faculty, and staff at discounted rates. Please contact the Office of Transportation Services (second floor, Quinn Administration Building) for information about multipark, monthly, and semester passes at 617.287.5041. By Bike Bike racks are available at multiple on-campus locations and indicated on the Campus Map. Bikes are also available for rental, seasonally, at the Hubway bike-sharing kiosk, located by the Integrated Sciences Complex along University Drive West. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms