Student Conduct Process - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Dean Of Students Student Conduct Process Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Emergency Aid Fund Services for Faculty & Staff Forms Resources for Parents And Families Referral & Complaint Forms Resources for Students Services for Students Contact Us Student Conduct Process Current Students Student Conduct Process In administering the Student Code of Conduct the Dean of Students Office employs a philosophy that is student-centered. We are dedicated to encouraging responsible and civil community conduct, promoting student development through individual responsibility, and facilitating a fair and impartial disciplinary process in situations where violations of the code have occurred. Students, faculty, and staff who believe there has been a violation of the code may contact our office to discuss options available for reporting incidents. The Dean of Students Office also provides conflict resolution services that help students resolve disputes in an effective and fair manner. If you find yourself in a dispute with another person, these conflict resolution services can provide you with valuable skills to resolve current and future conflicts. Note: As a student, your educational records are confidential, protected by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). The university cannot release this information to anyone other than you without your written authorization. This FERPA form is designed to allow you to authorize us to release information to the person(s) or organizations(s) designated. Conduct Related Documents Student Code of Conduct​ Student Code of Conduct, Appendix B: Academic Honesty Instructional Setting Conduct Policy Student Conduct Process Flow Frequently Asked Questions If I have been contacted by the Dean of Students Office about a conduct matter, what will happen? You will receive an email to your UMass Boston account from our office instructing you to make an appointment to meet with a hearing officer. The email will describe the charges and a time frame for setting your hearing. If you fail to set and attend your hearing, a decision can be made in the case without your input. This decision could affect your status as a student. If I am being charged in court, do I still have to go through the university’s conduct system? Disciplinary action through the university’s Dean of Students Office may proceed prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal proceedings and may not be subject to challenge on the ground that criminal charges involving the same incident have been dismissed or reduced. Who can I bring to a hearing for support? Students have the right to bring an advisor to hearings. The advisor must be a member of the university community. However, when related criminal charges are filed and pending, hearing officers may permit a lawyer as an advisor. What if the incident happened off campus? The university has jurisdiction for behavior off campus. So even if it happens off campus, it may still be a violation of the Student Code of Conduct, which will be handled by the Dean of Students Office. What if I do not complete an assigned sanction? Failure to complete assigned sanctions is considered a new violation of the Code of Conduct; Failure to Comply. In some situations, failure to complete sanctions may result in a hold on your record which will stop you from registering for course, suspension or expulsion from the university. Will potential employers have access to my conduct record? Your conduct record will only be accessible to them if you provide written permission allowing it. Dean of Students Office Campus Center, Floor 2 617.287.5800 dean.students@umb.edu If this is an emergency call the UMass Boston Police at 617.287.7777 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms