Staying Safe From Sexual or Partner Violence - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Resources4U Mental Health And Staying Safe From Violence Staying Safe From Sexual or Partner Violence Menu menu Menu Financial Resources Food Insecurity Support Home Heating Reources Mental Health And Staying Safe From Violence African American Black Identity Support Services Asian American Pacific Islander Support Services Connect Online To Talk About Mental Health Getting Control Over Your Drinking And Or Drug Use Health And Well Being During The Covid 19 Pandemic Helping Others Take Care Of Their Mental Health Information On Affordable Health Insurance Interfaith Services And Resources Latinx Hispanic Mental Health Support Services Lgbtq Community Mental Health And Support Services Mental Health Crisis Suicide Awareness Support Mindfulness Self Care Native American Indigenous Mental Health Support Physical And Emotional Health Programs At UMB Prejudice And Discrimination Self Care And Support Staying Safe From Sexual or Partner Violence Substance Misuse Resources And Support Groups Telehealth And Telemedicine Tips For Survivors Of Disaster Or Traumatic Event Veterans Mental Health Resources Support Services Where To Get Help If You Are Discriminated Against Other Support Prejudice Resources To Share With Family And Friends Tenants Rights And Protections Staying safe from domestic violence, intimate partner violence, & sexual assault If You or Someone You Know is in Crisis or Needs Immediate Help Please reach out for help if you need it. We all need support sometimes and there are people who care about you. Please call 911 if you are having a medical emergency or feel you're in immediate danger. You can use the following resources to report both on and off campus incidences: UMass Boston Police The office is open and staffed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Sexual Respect and Title IX at UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is committed to providing a safe and welcoming environment free of intimidation, harassment, and sexual misconduct, which includes relationship violence, stalking, and sexual harassment. Such conduct is prohibited by federal law (Title IX) and by university policy. The Bureau of Investigative Services at UMass Boston Also known as the Detective Division, provides specialized services in criminal investigation and community outreach programs. Additional Resources Crisis helplines & domestic violence support SafeLink SafeLink is a Massachusetts domestic violence hotline where you can get support and information about services for anyone affected by domestic or dating violence. SafeLink is run by Casa Myrna, an organization that provides housing, legal, and counseling services to survivors of domestic violence. Boston Area Rape Crisis Center BARCC hotline is available 24/7 at 800-841-8371 or chat. They offer support and services to survivors of sexual violence, counseling, and medical and legal advocacy. The National Domestic Violence Hotline Available 24/7, confidential and free:1-800-799-7233 and through chat. The National Sexual Assault Hotline Available 24/7, confidential and free: 800.656.HOPE (4673) and through chat. LoveisRespect Available 24/7 teen dating violence support: chat, text “loveis” to 1.866.331.9474, call 1.866.331.9474 Asian Task Force Against Domestic Violence ATASK offers multilingual services to Pan-Asian survivors of domestic and intimate partner violence, including a 24 hour help line, crisis intervention, emergency shelter, case management (i.e. legal, medical and immigration advocacy) and referral assistance Trans LifeLine For peer support for trans folks 9am-3am CT:1-877-565-8860 This hotline is staffed exclusively by trans operators is the only crisis line with a policy against non-consensual active rescue. Deaf Hotline Available 24/7 through video phone (1-855-812-1001), email and chat for Deaf, DeafBlind, DeafDisabled survivors. Respond Inc A Somerville-based 24-hour hotline that provides information, resources and referrals for local individuals and communities who are impacted by domestic violence. The Network La Red The Network/La Red is a survivor-led organization that provides a 24 hour hotline, support, crisis intervention, referrals, legal assistance and support groups for LGBTQ survivors of domestic violence. National Parent Helpline Available Monday-Friday 12pm-9am CT emotional support and advocacy for parents:1-855-427-2736 Violence Recovery Program at Fenway Health offers counseling, support groups, advocacy, and referral services to LGBT victims of violence. The Futures Without Violence website offers a range of information and resources on COVID-19 for survivors. The StrongHearts Native Helpline for domestic/sexual violence is available 7am-10pm CT, confidential, and specifically for Native communities: 1−844-762-848 Center for Violence Prevention and Recovery at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center offers services to survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, and community violence, including advocacy, crisis intervention, counseling, and support groups. DOVE, Inc. offers a 24 hour hotline, crisis intervention, counseling, emergency shelter, and legal advocacy to the victims of dating and domestic violence. Abuse and harassment HeartMob An online support site for individuals experiencing online harassment. There, you can report the harassment you are experiencing and receive real-time support from others who understand what you are going through. Cyber Civil Rights Initiative Helps victims that have had illicit images released online without their consent. US Army Victim Resource Flyer If you are Army personnel or your perpetrator is Army personnel, visit for help Victims of community violence and trauma The Boston Neighborhood Trauma Team (NTT) Support hotline 24/7 365 days a year (617-431-0125) Trauma Response Resource Directory Provides a single, regularly updated source of information for residents and advocates seeking violence and trauma-related services. Elderly abuse National Adult Protective Services Association Social services program for the elderly and adults living with disabilities-workers investigate cases of abuse/neglect/exploitation. Child abuse or neglect Report Child Abuse or Neglect Gov MA Learn what to do if you know or suspect a child is being abused or neglected. If a child is in immediate danger, call 911. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms