Scholarships - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Study Abroad Financing Study Abroad Scholarships Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Getting Started Study Abroad Programs Faculty Taught International Programs Requirements Financing Study Abroad Financial Aid Scholarships Health & Safety Before You Go When You Return Fellowships Provost's Office Scholarships While there is an abundance of study abroad scholarships you can apply for, it is important to look for study abroad funding early! Deadlines vary by program and many have earlier deadlines than your program deadline. We advise students to apply for as many study abroad funding opportunities as possible. Every year we have many UMass Boston students who receive study abroad scholarships. You can too! Scholarship sources for study abroad may be merit-based, student-specific, destination-specific, program specific, and/or subject specific. In the interest of increasing who studies abroad, many scholarships aim to reach students traditionally underrepresented students in study abroad. Others are completely merit-based.  Many scholarships also encourage students who choose to study in non-traditional study abroad destinations (especially those outside Western Europe, Australia, and New Zealand). Be sure to spend significant time in researching funding opportunities for the best chance at receiving funding towards your study abroad program. Below you will find scholarship resources and featured scholarship programs UMass Boston students have applied to in the past. Our office is happy to assist students in their applications and essays for these programs. When choosing your funding options, it's important to remember: * Start early * Ask for help * Seek multiple resources * Plan * Save * Get creative! * Global Programs Blog Scholarship: The Office of Global Programs Blog Scholarship is available to University of Massachusetts Boston students pursuing study abroad. This scholarship is designed to assist students with travel expenses during their time abroad. The awarded students will be required to submit blog posts during their time abroad to UMass Boston which will be published on the Study Abroad Blog site: https://umbstudyabroadalumni.wordpress.com/ The application for the Blog Scholarship is located in your program application on the UMass Boston study abroad site (ViaTrm) . You must upload your application for the scholarship by the deadlines below. Upcoming Deadlines: November 15, 2024 for Winter 2025 or Spring 2025 programs April 15, 2025 for Summer 2025, Fall 2025, or Academic Year (AY) 2025-2026 programs Pell-Grant Recipients: Gilman International Scholarship: The Benjamin A. Gilman scholarship supports Pell grant recipients for their study abroad term. Students traditionally underrepresented in study abroad are encouraged to apply. Students can receive up to $5,000 towards their program! 11 UMass Boston students were awarded Gilman Scholarships in the October 2023 cycle. If you have a Pell Grant and are studying abroad while learning one of the listed " Critical-Need Languages ", you can apply for up to $8,000! Students doing STEM-related research while abroad are also eligible to apply for a supplemental $1,000 award. Deadlines in March and October every year! Apply now! Summer Beacon Student Success Fellowship: Do not miss to apply for the Beacon’s Student Success Fellowship for summer study abroad! This scholarship was awarded in the past several years to UMass Boston undergraduates who have secured an experiential learning opportunity (study abroad included) for up to $4,000. Application Deadline for Summer 2025: TBD (~March 2025) More information and application is available online General Study Abroad Scholarships: Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship The U.S. Department of State’s Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship Program enables students of limited financial means to study or intern abroad, providing them with skills critical to our national security and economic prosperity. To be eligible for the Gilman Program, applicants must be receiving a Federal Pell Grant during the time of application or provide proof that they will be receiving a Pell Grant during the term of their study abroad program or internship. Award Amounts: Up to $5,000 for a study abroad program If doing STEM-related research , supplemental application for an additional $1,000 If studying a Critical Need Language , supplemental application for an additional $3,000 Deadlines: Two application cycle's each year First Thursday in October First Thursday in March Students can study and intern abroad during the spring, summer, fall, winter, or academic year term. Refer to each term for specific dates on the deadlines and timelines for the application cycle. It is important that students apply for the correct scholarship term according to their program dates in order to be considered for the Gilman Scholarship. Please be aware that the application deadline is in Pacific Time (PT) and take into consideration any time difference as you prepare to submit your application. Late applications are not accepted. Download the Gilman Essay Worksheet to help you get started in your application! Gilman-McCain Scholarship The John S. McCain International Scholarship for Military Families (Gilman-McCain Scholarship) provides awards of $5,000 for child and spousal dependents of active or activated United States military personnel during the time of application (including Air Force, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, Army, Army National Guard, Army Reserve, Coast Guard, Coast Guard Reserve, Marine Corps, Marine Corps Reserve, Navy, Navy Reserve, Space Force, NOAA Commissioned Corps, and USPHS Commissioned Corps) to study or intern abroad on credit-bearing programs. Applicants must be recipients of any type of Title IV federal financial aid during the time of application or provide proof that they will be receiving Title IV federal financial aid during their study abroad program or internship. Award Details: The Gilman-McCain Scholarship recipients are awarded $5,000 to be used toward the cost of study abroad or international internship programs. Students studying critical need languages are eligible for a supplemental award up to $3,000, and students conducting STEM research abroad are eligible for a supplemental award up to $1,000. Beacon Student Success Fellowship- Summer Do you have an internship, research project, or study-abroad opportunity this summer but lack the funds? Then apply for a UMass Boston Beacon Student Success Fellowship ! Eligible summer experiences: Unpaid/low paid internship Service learning Faculty-mentored research project Volunteer work Field experience course Participation in an academic symposium Study abroad Travel related to academic projects and study If you are an undergraduate student in good academic standing who is returning to the university at least part-time in the following fall semester : Follow the guidelines provided in the Application Check List . For more information check out Handshake and refer to the “Resources” link under the "Career Center" tab for additional resources. Refer to the BSSF FAQ Sheet for frequently asked questions about the Beacon Student Success Fellowship. Applications typically open in February/March each year, with a deadline in late-March. Awards are announced in late May. Fund for Education Abroad The Fund for Education Abroad invests in deserving U.S. undergraduates who are least likely to study abroad. More than 100 volunteer reviewers read applications each cycle. In partnership with them, we consider financial need, demographic factors, and academic plan and preparedness to decide our scholarship recipients. Financial Need is determined by the FEA Financial Aid Form we provide. We require applicants to have completed a FAFSA for the current academic year. Demographic Factors that are considered include first-generation college student status, racial identity, and community college experience. Academic Plan and Preparedness are determined by your essays and unofficial transcript. Scholarship Amounts: Up to $10,000 for students who plan to study abroad for an academic year Up to $5,000 for students who plan to study abroad during the fall or spring semester Prorated Scholarships by # of weeks for summer/short-term programs (with a minimum of $1,000) To be eligible for an FEA scholarship, you must be: U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or DACA recipient Currently enrolled as an undergraduate at U.S. institution of higher education (graduate students are not eligible) Receiving credit at your home institution for the study abroad program Deadlines : Two application periods each year Summer/Fall Deadline: early-February Spring Deadline: mid-September Boren Awards The Boren Awards provide unique funding opportunities for U.S. undergraduate & graduate students to study less commonly taught languages in world regions critical to U.S. interests, and underrepresented in study abroad, including Africa, Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, and the Middle East. In exchange for funding, Boren Awards recipients commit to working in the federal government for at least one year after graduation. Preference will be given to applicants who demonstrate a longer term commitment to government service . Boren Scholarships : Fund study abroad by U.S. undergraduate students in world regions critical to U.S. interests. Maximum awards are determined by duration abroad: Up to $25,000 for 25-52 weeks (preferred) Up to $12,500 for 12-24 weeks Up to $8,000 for 8-11 weeks ( STEM majors only) Boren Fellowships : F und research and language study proposals by U.S. graduate students in world regions critical to U.S. interests. Maximum awards are determined by duration abroad: Up to $25,000 for 25-52 weeks (preferred) Up to $12,500 for 12-24 weeks + Up to $12,000 for domestic language study (optional) Recommended: Attend a Webinar to learn about the program To apply for the Boren Scholarship or Fellowship: meet with the Fellowships Office at UMass Boston , who will give you the UMass Boston campus deadlines for the Boren, and help you through the process to apply. Critical Language Scholarship- Summer The Critical Language Scholarship (CLS) Program partners with universities and nonprofits around the globe to provide cohorts of U.S. students an opportunity to study the language and culture in a country/location where the target language is commonly spoken. CLS scholars are expected to continue their language study beyond the scholarship and apply their critical language skills in their future careers. Eligibility Requirements : Deadline in November each year for the next summer term. Program Structure CLS Program institutes cover approximately one academic year of university-level language coursework during an eight- to ten-week program and are designed to meet the needs of students from a variety of language levels and backgrounds. Some CLS institutes require one to two years of prior language study (or the equivalent), while others accept students with no prior background in the language. The CLS Program offers instruction in thirteen critical languages: No Previous Study Required Azerbaijani Hindi Indonesian Persian Portuguese Swahili Turkish Urdu One Year of Study Required (Or Equivalent) Arabic Chinese Korean Russian Two Years of Study Required (Or Equivalent) Japanese Program Benefits Participants in the CLS Program will receive: Language instruction and cultural programming; Textbooks and language learning materials; Language gains certified using the widely recognized ACTFL OPI (Oral Proficiency Interview) assessment; Non-competitive eligibility for U.S. government employment for up to three years after program completion; Academic credit issued through Bryn Mawr College International and domestic travel between the student's home city in the U.S. and the CLS Program site abroad; Visa application fees, where applicable; and Room, board, and program-sponsored travel within the host country or location. Other expenses, such as, but not limited to, will not be covered: U.S. passport fees (except for students who are eligible and apply for CLS Passport Assistance); Cost of medical exams and any follow-up visits necessary to pass the medical review process, as determined by the CLS Program; and Cost of immunizations required for entry, as well as costs for travel health clinical appointments. The Diverse International Women Of Color Study Abroad Scholarship The Diverse International Women Of Color Study Abroad Scholarship is intended to assist women of color who are exceptional in their studies and in need of financial assistance to study abroad. DIWC will award $500 scholarships to women of color who have been accepted to an In-Person Study Abroad Program. Eligibility Information: https://diwcfund.org/diwc-faqs/ Deadlines: Summer: Deadline typically mid-April Fall: Deadline typically mid-July Spring: Deadline typically mid-November Go Overseas Scholarships Apply to scholarships , read guides on studying in specific countries, and sign up to be the first to know when a new opportunity arises. Every year Go Overseas awards over $175,000 in scholarships. Scholarships change each year, such as a free round-trip flight to New Zealand for study abroad students, semester in Ireland scholarships, etc. Check the website for any open scholarships. Also See Go Overseas 50 Study Abroad Scholarships and Grants to Apply For! Other Scholarship Opportunities, Resources, & More: https://www.gooverseas.com/scholarships General Federation of Women's Clubs of Massachusetts Scholarship General Federation of Women's Clubs of Massachusetts Scholarship offers an International Study Abroad Scholarship for undergraduate or graduate study abroad, starting at $500. The award is to be used for a 12-credit Summer Session, Semester, or Full-Year Program. Deadline is in early-March each year. Must have legal residence in Massachusetts to apply. CIEE Douglass-O'Connell Global Internship For the 2024 Douglass-O'Connell Global Internship (formerly known as the Frederick Douglass Global Fellowship), 10 exceptional student leaders will be selected for a transformative summer internship program in Dublin, Ireland, where they will draw inspiration from the legacies of two remarkable social justice leaders: Frederick Douglass and Daniel O'Connell.  During this unique eight-week program, Douglass-O’Connell Global Interns will spend June 14 to August 10, 2024 participating in a work placement in an Irish organization and receiving academic credit while participating in a special exploration of the influence Daniel O’Connell had on Frederick Douglass and their lifetime legacies as successful businessmen and leaders of social change. Douglass-O'Connell Global Internship Applicants Must: Be a current undergraduate freshman, sophomore, or junior from an accredited institution Have a minimum GPA of 3.0 Be a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or permanent resident Be Pell-eligible preferred (not required) Submit a complete application no later than February 1, 2024 Internship Details: Co-sponsored by CIEE, the Government of Ireland, and the African American Irish Diaspora Network, the program award covers the full program cost, airfare, housing, field trips, and an academic course taught by CIEE . Meals and recreational activities are not covered. The Douglass-O'Connell Global Internship is a transformative eight-week summer internship program taking place in Dublin, Ireland that includes an immersive work placement and an academic internship course. The Douglass-O'Connell Global Internship is fully-sponsored by CIEE, the Government of Ireland, and the African American Irish Diaspora Network. Ten (10) students will be selected. Douglass-O’Connell Global Interns will be selected based on their demonstrated interest in gaining real-world work experience in Ireland; their desire to emulate the business acumen and social justice reform of Frederick Douglass and Daniel O’Connell; their values in equality, entrepreneurship, and advocacy; and their commitment to pursuing a better, more inclusive world. During the program, Douglass-O’Connell Global Interns commit to completing all required academic coursework, fully immersing themselves in their Irish work placement, attending all activities, and actively engaging with instructors and peers throughout the program. After the program, Douglass-O’Connell Global Interns commit to sharing their international internship experience with their campus community to promote the power of international education and encourage peers to study or intern abroad. If you’re not selected for the program, all eligible applicants receive a Douglass-O'Connell Scholars Grant ($1,500) that they may use for a 2024 or 2025 CIEE Summer Global Internship program. Featured Partner-Provider Grants & Scholarships Also check the provider websites for additional scholarships and grants to apply for! Please note, these grants and scholarships are only for students who are applying to that provider. For example, a CIEE grant can only be used on a CIEE Program. API-UMass Special Pricing & Scholarship The UMass System has partnered with Academic Programs International (API) to offer special discounts for UMass students to study abroad on specific API semester and summer programs. Program locations 2024-2025: Argentina, Bhutan, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Croatia, France, Hungary, Italy, Ireland, Poland, Scotland, Spain, UAE, and the UK. We also have additional API scholarships from $500 - $2,000 we are able to award UMass Boston students to attend API programs. API also offers several scholarships from $250 - $2000 for their programs. CIEE Programs Grants & Scholarships CIEE Need-Based Grants: The CIEE Gilman Go Global Grant awards qualified Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship applicants can apply to this grant for up to $2,500 off semester or $1,000 off summer CIEE Programs. The CIEE GAIN Travel Grant awards students with Expected Family Contribution (EFC_ up to 10,000 guaranteed, other EFCs considered post-deadline up to $1,500 for Travel costs to and from CIEE Study Abroad Programs for semesters, $500 for summer CIEE programs. Minority Serving Institution (MSI) Grant : Current attendee at an MSI (UMass Boston!) Award supports high-need students based on Student Aid Report (SAR) and availability of funds. $2,000 for semester, $500 for summer. CIEE Semester Merit Scholarships: NAME QUALIFICATIONS DESCRIPTION AMOUNT (UP TO) Frederick Douglass Scholars Qualified applicants not chosen for a full Fellowship are guaranteed a $1,500 program grant Deduction from program fees $1,500 McDermott Health Sciences, Nursing and Public Health Academic achievement and acceptance into a program focused on health sciences, nursing, or public health Deduction from program fees $2,500 Ping Scholarship for Academic Excellence Academic achievement Deduction from program fees $2,500 Ritzmann Tropical and Marine Ecology Scholarship Academic achievement and acceptance into a program focused on tropical or marine ecology Deduction from program fees $2,500 Stohl International Undergraduate Research Scholarship Academic achievement and acceptance into a qualified program Deduction from program fees $2,500 Wollitzer Merit Scholarship in Area or Comparative Studies Academic achievement and acceptance into a qualified program Deduction from program fees $2,500 CIEE Summer Merit Scholarships: NAME QUALIFICATIONS DESCRIPTION AMOUNT (UP TO) Douglass-O'Connell Global Internship Freshman, sophomore, or junior, Pell-eligible, 3.0 GPA Eight-week summer global internship program, including airfare 100% of program fee and travel costs Douglass-O'Connell Scholars Grant Qualified applicants not chosen for the Douglass-O'Connell Global Internship are guaranteed a $1,500 grant toward any 2024 or 2025 Summer Global Internship program Deduction from program fees $1,500 McDermott Health Sciences, Nursing and Public Health Academic achievement and acceptance into a program focused on health sciences, nursing, or public health Deduction from program fees $750 Ping Scholarship for Academic Excellence Academic achievement Deduction from program fees $750 Ritzmann Tropical and Marine Ecology Scholarship Academic achievement and acceptance into a program focused on tropical or marine ecology Deduction from program fees $750 STEM Scholarship Any STEM major studying on any CIEE Summer Program Deduction from program fees $500 Stohl International Undergraduate Research Scholarship Academic achievement and acceptance into a qualified program Deduction from program fees $750 Wollitzer Merit Scholarship in Area or Comparative Studies Academic achievement and acceptance into a qualified program Deduction from program fees $750 Scholarships & Grants Caps Scholarship and grant totals cannot exceed the caps established for each term. If you are selected for multiple awards, CIEE may need to reduce the size of your awards to stay within the maximum cap amounts listed below. Spring : $5,000 Fall : $5,000 Summer : $2,500 One Block : $2,500 Two Blocks (Quarter) : $4,000 Three Blocks (Semester) : $5,000 January: no CIEE funding CIS Abroad Programs Scholarships & Grants CIS Abroad Grants : CIS Abroad Passport Grant - $160 Are you dreaming of going abroad, but still without a passport (or need to renew an expiring passport)? Never fear! CIS Abroad has you covered. Our Passport Grant helps cover the up-front cost of your passport application. We’ll send you checks made out directly to the U.S. State Department and to the Passport Acceptance Facility (ex. post office) where you’ll apply for your passport. Passport in hand, the world will be yours to explore! NOTE: CIS Abroad passport grants are not retroactive, and cannot be used to reimburse costs. CIS Abroad TRIO Student Grant - up to $750 towards your flights If you are currently or have ever been a part of a TRIO program , you’re eligible to apply for our TRIO Student Grant, up to $750 towards your flights, to help you get abroad! CIS Abroad Gilman Grant - up to $750 towards your flights If you’re applying for a Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship from the U.S. State Department for your CIS Abroad program, you’re also eligible to apply for our CIS Abroad Gilman grant, a flight voucher worth up to $750. CIS Abroad Scholarships: CIS Abroad First-Generation Student Scholarship (up to $500) CIS Abroad understands first-generation students face additional barriers to studying and interning abroad. In fact, many staff members at CIS Abroad are also first-generation college students. This scholarship is intended to help fund the visa process, flights, and international housing for students who are among the first from their family to go to college. Recipients will share their story of learning and exploration while abroad with a photo gallery and their choice of travel vlog, blogging, or an Instagram takeover. CIS Abroad Student of Color Scholarship (up to $500) This award is intended to benefit students of color, who are traditionally underrepresented within education abroad. We aim to widen the diversity of our community of interns and students abroad and foster equity in access to these experiences. If you identify as biracial, multiracial, Black, African & African American, Caribbean American, Latinx / Chican@ / Hispanic, Asian & Asian American, Native, Pacific Islander, or another minoritized racial/ethnic identity not listed, we invite you to apply. In your application essay, tell us about how your identity will impact your experience abroad. Recipients will select from a variety of mediums to share their story while abroad, in addition to submitting a photo testimonial. CIS Abroad Rainbow Scholarship (up to $500) This award is intended for students within the LGBTQIA+ community, as part of CIS Abroad’s commitment to Generation Study Abroad. Studying abroad as an LGBTQIA+ or gender nonconforming student brings an additional set of challenges and options to consider. We’ve surveyed our program partners and collected feedback from participants to provide a set of LGBTQIA+ friendly programs . You may also want to do your own research to help determine where you’re most likely to thrive. Our LGBTQIA+ students have amazing experiences abroad and often find local LGBTQIA+ communities to be a part of. Recipients will select from a variety of mediums to share their story while abroad, in addition to submitting a photo testimonial. CIS Abroad Go Green Scholarship (up to $500) CIS Abroad is proud to be part of the CANIE Accord commitment of sustainability and decarbonizing actions. CANIE, short for Climate Action Network for International Educators, is a volunteer-run organization looking to further action and commitment in the industry. CIS Abroad has made several commitments as part of this initiative and we are looking for students to help further this mission. Do you have a passion for sustainability? If so, we encourage you to apply for our Go Green Scholarship! Recipients will be required to share their commitment toward sustainability abroad. Students may choose to volunteer on-site or join a related club on campus that relates to sustainable efforts in addition to submitting a blog or video. CIS Abroad Student Athlete Scholarship (up to $500) CIS Abroad understands the challenges student-athletes face when pursuing study abroad opportunities. We also know it is possible to find programs that accommodate student-athlete needs and we want to help make it happen! CIS Abroad encourages all student-athletes across these 3 divisions in the U.S.; NCAA, NAIA, and NJCAA to apply for this scholarship. Recipients will share their personal experience of being a student-athlete abroad in the form of blogs, videos, or an informal interview with our Marketing Team. CIS Abroad Academic Merit Scholarship (up to $500) This award is intended for students who demonstrate excellence in their academic major. While abroad, recipients will use a variety of channels (video, blogging, photos) to share how studying/interning abroad is enriching their academic or professional career, in addition to submitting a photo testimonial. AIFS Scholarships and Grants AIFS Grant Opportunities: Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) Grant : AIFS Abroad will award a $500 grant for students attending a Minority Serving Institution (UMass Boston!). Pell Grant Eligible Grant : AIFS Abroad will award an additional $500 to each student who receives a Pell Grant and uses it toward any AIFS catalog program. Gilman Recipient Grant : AIFS Abroad will award an additional $500 to each student who receives a Benjamin A Gilman International Scholarship and uses towards any AIFS program. FEA Recipient Grant : AIFS Abroad will award an additional $500 to each student who receives a Fund for Education Abroad Scholarship and uses it toward an AIFS semester or academic year catalog program. Boren Recipient Grant : AIFS Abroad will award an additional $500 to each student who receives a Boren Scholarship and uses it toward any AIFS catalog program. U.S. Veterans Grant : For students eligible to receive GI Bill education benefits, AIFS Abroad will provide a $500 grant for any AIFS catalog program. AIFS Scholarship Opportunities: AIFS Diversity Achievement Scholarship Fall Semester: $5,000/up to 3 awards Spring Semester: $5,000/up to 3 awards. AIFS is proud to offer special scholarships for high achieving students from backgrounds historically underrepresented in education abroad. AIFS Overseas Ambassador Scholarship Fall Semester: $500/up to 5 awards Spring Semester: $500/up to 5 awards Summer: $500/up to 2 awards AIFS is pleased to offer this award to outstanding students from backgrounds historically underrepresented in education abroad. Cyril Taylor Memorial Scholarship for Study in the UK Fall Semester: $5,000/scholarship Summer: $3,750/scholarship Academic Year: $10,000/scholarship Awarded to deserving American undergraduates to study in the United Kingdom, offered by the Fund for Education Abroad (FEA) through a gift from the Cyril Taylor Charitable Foundation (CTCF). John S Linakis Scholarship Fall/Spring Semester: $5,000 This scholarship will be awarded each semester to an AIFS student with limited financial resources who also demonstrates an interest in and a commitment to social justice. Maynooth University Scholarship Summer: $1000 In collaboration with our overseas partner, Maynooth University in Ireland, AIFS is pleased to offer scholarships to outstanding students looking to study at Maynooth University. Russel Taylor Foundation Scholarship Semester or Summer: up to 50% off program fee The Russel Taylor Foundation is committed to providing study abroad scholarships for students who have demonstrated academic excellence and who have significant financial need. Sir Cyril Taylor Legacy Scholarship Semester: $1,000 Summer/January Term: $500 Awarded each term in honor of AIFS Founder, Sir Cyril Taylor, AIFS offers this scholarship to students who demonstrate high academic achievements and articulate their objectives in a required essay. SIT Study Abroad Scholarships & Grants SIT Study Abroad awards need-based scholarships and grants . We do not offer merit-based awards at this time. Average awards range between $500 and $5,000 for our semester programs, and between $500 and $3,000 for our summer programs. Our scholarships and grants are available to all students accepted into an SIT Study Abroad program irrespective of citizenship, national origin, or home school. Below is a partial list of SIT Study Abroad’s scholarships and grants. These scholarships and grants are available only to students applying to an SIT Study Abroad program. SIT Pell Grant Match Award – SIT matches Federal Pell Grant funding up to $2,500 for semester students who use their Pell Grant to help pay the cost of their SIT program. Students utilizing their Federal Pell Grant for SIT Study Abroad summer terms receive up to a $1000 match. SEO Scholars Award – Students who are Sponsors for Educational Opportunity (SEO) Scholars will receive a $2,000 award for SIT Study Abroad semester or summer programs. The Experiment in International Living (EIL) Alumni Study Abroad Scholarship – To recognize and support alumni of EIL summer high school programs who also participate in SIT Study Abroad programs. $1,000 for semester programs and $500 for summer. A $400 scholarship is also available to students who indicate that they have an immediate family member who has participated in an EIL or its College Semester Abroad program. Hispanic-serving Scholarships – For students enrolled at Hispanic-serving institutions, including member institutions of HACU who demonstrate financial need, SIT will award a $3,000 scholarship for participation in a semester program and $2,000 for a summer program. HBCU Scholarships – For students enrolled at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). SIT Bonner Scholar Award – To recognize students participating in this community service program. SIT Boren Scholar Award – To recognize students participating in the National Security Education Program (NSEP) funded award, which focuses on study abroad in areas of the world that are critical to US interests and underrepresented in study abroad. SIT Fund – For students with demonstrated financial need who enroll in any SIT Study Abroad program. The SIT Fund aims to help promote study abroad opportunities worldwide. SIT Study Abroad Alumni Scholarship – This is an automatic scholarship to recognize and support students who participate in two or more SIT Study Abroad programs, including alumni of short-term summer programs. The scholarship will be applied to a student’s second full term of study with SIT. The scholarship is $1,000 for a fall or spring semester program or $500 for a full-term, international summer program. These scholarships are available through the generous support of individual donors, foundations, and others: The Compton Fund – For students enrolled in SIT programs with environmental, post-conflict transformation, or sustainable development themes. John Sommer Scholarship – An average of $5,000 (amount varies) is awarded each semester to a student participating on a program in South or Southeast Asia. Joan Tiffany IHP Scholarship – Awarded to students enrolled in one of the comparative International Honors Programs. The Richard and Dale Levy India Scholarship – $5,000 is awarded to one student participating in a semester program in India. Sally Bragg Baker Scholarship – An average of $4,500 (amount varies) is awarded to one female student, 22 years of age or younger, who demonstrates international awareness and a desire to create a more peaceful world through international exchange. This scholarship is available for summer programs only. Sarah B. and Clarence J. Gamble Scholarship – For students on a program which includes a focus on population studies, women’s health or population-related health and nutrition work. Students on any program choosing to design their Independent Study Project to focus on these areas may also be eligible. SIT Bergstrom Foundation Scholarships – These scholarships ($30,000 divided between several students annually, with an average award of $3,750 per student) are for students who wish to study in Latin America or East Africa and focus primarily on women’s reproductive health and/or other topics such as girls’ education, poverty, social justice, ecology, or regional integration. Preferred SIT East Africa programs are those based in Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, or Tanzania. SIT Robert Kantor Memorial Scholarship – This $10,000 scholarship opportunity is for one student per year. The student must demonstrate extreme financial need, attend an HBCU (or other minority-serving institution), be a first-generation college student, and have never previously traveled abroad. Are you a veteran of the US military, a recipient of a Federal Pell Grant, or an SEO Scholar? If so, you may be eligible to have your application fee waived and/or your deposit fee deferred until your final bill is due. If you think you qualify, please contact the SIT Study Abroad financial aid and scholarship coordinator. USAC Scholarships How to Apply Apply to a USAC Study Abroad Program (if you have not already). Please note that it can take three to five business days after submitting your application to receive access to your USAC Student Gateway Account. Log in to your USAC Student Gateway Account and complete the "Scholarship Application: Optional Form" in the "7+ Months Before Program Start" section under your documents tab. Your scholarship application will be processed so you are considered for as many of the below USAC Scholarships for which you are eligible. USAC General Scholarships Regional and Term-Specific Scholarships This scholarship is available during all applicable terms. Scholarships are available for each of the geographic regions with USAC programs (Africa/Middle East, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and Oceania). All degree-seeking students with a minimum 2.5 GPA are eligible. Regional Scholarships For Regional Scholarships, USAC programs are divided as follows: Africa and Middle East: Israel, South Africa Asia: India, China, Japan, South Korea, Thailand Europe: Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, Scotland, Spain, Sweden Latin America: Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Uruguay Oceania: Australia, New Zealand Term-Specific Scholarships January Session: A scholarship fund is available specific to students attending a January Session program. All degree-seeking students with a minimum 2.5 GPA are eligible. Access, Equity, and Inclusion Scholarship This scholarship is for students who are considered underrepresented in study abroad. USAC defines “underrepresented” according to the following categories established by Diversity Abroad: Ethnically/Racially diverse LGBTQIA+ Religious diversity Students with disabilities Non-traditional age students (25+) USAC First Generation Student Scholarship Any eligible student whose parents/guardians did not graduate from a 4-year college or university. Military Service Scholarship Any U.S. Military Personnel (active or veteran status) and their dependents (child or spouse) are eligible for this scholarship. Science, Technology, Math, and Engineering (STEM) Scholarship All students with a declared STEM major or minor are eligible for this scholarship. STEM majors may come from a variety of academic disciplines but are generally referred to as degrees that confers a Bachelor of Science. USAC Program -Specific Scholarships: Scholarships for specific USAC Programs can be found on the USAC Scholarships page . ISA & TEAN Scholarships & Grants ISA Scholarships & Grants Give (GI Veterans Excellence) Award - 5% ISA provides this generous supplemental scholarship to GI-Bill recipients who are participating in an ISA program. This award will apply to all active and veteran benefit recipients, regardless of whether the GI-Bill funding will transfer to their term abroad. Fund For Education Abroad Access Partner The Fund for Education Abroad’s (FEA) mission is to provide scholarships and ongoing support to students who are underrepresented among the U.S. study abroad population. As an FEA Access Partner, WorldStrides has joined in the shared commitment to increase the number of underrepresented American college students studying abroad through the provision of scholarships. FEA scholarship applicants participating on an ISA or TEAN program may be eligible for financial support of up to $5,000 GO (Global Opportunity) Full-Ride Scholarship ISA will award one scholarship each year to a participating student for the full list price of the ISA program. Diversity Scholarship This scholarship is offered for summer and semester programs and is intended for students with identities historically underserved in education abroad. This can include, but is not limited to, individuals who identify as African American/Black, Hispanic/Latino, Asian American, Alaskan Native, American Indian, Native Hawaiian, LGBTQIA+, First-Generation College Students, U.S. Military Veterans, students with disabilities, and/or students at Minority-Serving Institutions Semester Partnership Scholarship These merit and financial need-based scholarships assist semester students from affiliated universities with the expenses of studying abroad. Applicants for this scholarship must exhibit financial need via supporting documents, including your home university financial aid award letter and Student Aid Report. Summer Pathways Scholarship These merit and financial need-based summer term scholarships are dedicated to the memory of Michaela Farnum, a very involved Seattle University student who worked with various youth and campus organizations. Applicants for this scholarship must exhibit financial need via supporting documents, including your home university financial aid award letter and Student Aid Report. Community Engagement Scholarship This scholarship, exclusively for participants enrolled in an ISA Service-Learning program, is offered in memory of Kalyn Peterson who leaves behind a legacy of promoting diversity and putting others’ needs before her own. TEAN Scholarships & Grants Freeman-Asia Supplemental Scholarship: The Freeman-ASIA Scholarship i s designed to support U.S. undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who are planning to study overseas in Asia. Recipients of that distinguished scholarship who are participating in a TEAN semester program in China, Japan, South Korea, Thailand, or Vietnam are eligible for this $500 supplemental scholarship from TEAN. Once you’ve applied to a TEAN program in Asia , submit your award letter from the Freeman-ASIA Scholarship to your TEAN Program Manager to let them know you are eligibl e for this supplemental award. GIVE (GI Veterans Excellence) Scholarship: TEAN provides this 5% supplemental scholarship to GI-Bill recipients who are participating in a study abroad or internship program. This award will apply to all active and veteran benefit recipients, regardless of whether the GI-Bill funding will transfer to their term abroad. Once you’ve applied, let your TEAN Program Manager know you are eligible. Submission of your Certificate of Eligibility (COE) letter or other proof of VA documentation is required to receive this award. GO (Global Opportunity) Full-Ride Scholarship The Global Opportunity (GO) Full-Ride Scholarship is designed to give a stand-out student the opportunity to study abroad. The scholarship can be used for any TEAN program and covers tuition, program fees and orientation (up to $15,000 value). You can read more about the history of the TEAN full ride scholarship and previous winners here .  There is not a separate application for the GO Full Ride. All applicants who apply for one of the other TEAN scholarship by the deadline will be considered. There will be one GO Full Ride Scholarship awarded for per year. Diversity Scholarship This scholarship is offered for summer and semester programs and is intended for students with identities historically underserved in education abroad. This can include, but is not limited to, individuals who identify as African American/Black, Hispanic/Latino, Asian American, Alaskan Native, American Indian, Native Hawaiian, LGBTQIA+, First-Generation College Students, U.S. Military Veterans, students with disabilities, and/or students at  MSI's. Semester Partnership Scholarship These merit and financial need-based scholarships assist semester students from affiliated universities with the expenses of studying abroad. Applicants for this scholarship must exhibit financial need via supporting documents, including your home university financial aid award letter and Student Aid Report . Summer Pathways Scholarship The purpose of this scholarship is to award those who have achieved academic excellence and require extra financial assistance. Applicants for this scholarship must exhibit financial need via supporting documents, including your home university financial aid award letter and Student Aid Report . CEA & CAPA Scholarships & Grants CEA CAPA scholarships are available to students on programs of three weeks or more. All scholarships require students to complete an application, and not all scholarships are available each term. FEA scholarships are administered by the Fund for Education Abroad, a nonprofit organization dedicated to increasing access to study abroad. Scholarship awards vary from $100 - $5,000 according to need, program duration, and location. Content Creator and Alumni Ambassador funding varies and is disbursed following successful completion of program activities. Fund the Gap Cost of Living Scholarship: ($200 - $1,000) Scholarship amounts vary by need, length of CEA/CAPA program, area for funding requested, and cost of living in the destination. Available to all students on programs of three weeks or more during Spring, Summer, and Fall terms. Academic Excellence Scholarship: Limited to specific areas of curricular focus and destinations in consultation with CEA/ CAPA Program Development. In addition to demonstrating excellence in the student's academic discipline, successful applicants must complete a series of short-answer questions about their academic background and goals for their experience abroad. Need-Based Scholarship: ($200 - $5,000) Scholarship amounts are evaluated based on financial need, as well as the student's reflection on identity, program goals, personal investment, and location choice. Available to all students on CEA or CAPA programs of three weeks or more, but may not be available in all terms for all locations. Students of Color Opportunity Scholarship: ($200 - $5,000) Available to students of color with financial need on CEA or CAPA programs of three weeks or more. First-Generation Opportunity Scholarship: ($200 - $5,000) Available to first-generation students on CEA or CAPA programs of three weeks or more. FEA Rainbow Scholarship Fund: This scholarship is available to deserving students who identify as LGBTQIA+ attending a CEA or CAPA study abroad program of any length. Flight Credit: ($1,000) for students who identify as a first-generation college student, a BIPOC student, a member of the LGBTQIA+ community, a student who receives post-9/11 GI Bill benefits, or if you attend an MSI (a Minority Serving Institution), you may apply for a credit that'll be awarded in the form of a flight credit with StudentUniverse and used toward your study or intern abroad with CEA or CAPA flight. Passport Application Subsidy: ($130) is a grant specifically for students who are applying for their first-ever U.S. passport. These funds are awarded as a check and can cover your passport application fee. You must be applying to CEA or CAPA program. Work-Study Subsidy: (up to $2,500) helps bridge the financial gap for students who are foregoing on or off campus employment to study abroad with CEA or CAPA. CEA CAPA will award funds in the form of a check made out to the student. Location Specific Study Abroad Scholarships: Asia-specific Scholarships Blakemore Asian Language Fellowships This program funds a year of advanced study of an Asian language in Asia for American citizens and permanent residents of the United States who have a degree and who plan to use an Asian language in their careers. Freeman Awards for Study in Asia (Freeman-ASIA) provides scholarships for U.S. undergraduate students with demonstrated financial need to study abroad in East or Southeast Asia. Created to assist U.S. students with demonstrated financial need and limited prior experience in East and Southeast Asia. Latin America & Caribbean The Hildreth Latin American Travel Fellowship The Robert Hildreth Latin America Internship Award provides approximately $3,000-$5000 for undergraduate students to travel and conduct research in Latin American or Caribbean countries .  Email: Lorna.Rivera@umb.edu for more information. https://www.umb.edu/gaston-institute/core-programs/robert-hildreth-award/ Due May 2025. Current agreements include Facultad Latinoamericana De Ciencias Sociales (FLACSO) in Ecuador, University of Quintana Roo and Sistema de Universidades Estatales de Oaxaca (SUNEO) in Mexico, Fundación Vínculos in Bogotá, Colombia. Please contact us if you are interested in another country, to find out if we have institutional relationships. Argentina SABE (San Andrés Building Excellence) scholarship for undergraduate international students interested in studying in the Program in Latin American Studies at Universidad de San Andrés in Buenos Aires, Argentina for the Mar-Jul 2017 or Aug-Dec 2017 semesters. Partial and complete tuition scholarships (full tuition is $8000 USD) will be awarded based both on merit and need. The deadline to apply for the program and for the scholarship is Oct. 15 for semester 1 (March- July) and April 15 for semester 2 (August- December). Canada Killam Undergraduate Fellowships for Americans offered by the Canada Fulbright Program. The program provides an opportunity for exceptional undergraduate students from universities in the United States to spend either one semester or a full academic year as an exchange student in Canada. Applicants must be U.S. citizens; full-time undergraduate students in good standing at a fully accredited degree granting college or university in the United States. China Chinese Government Scholarship : awards are intended for undergraduate students to study one academic year in Chinese language combined with a selection of academic subjects,  attending AASCU member institutions in China (U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents). France Walter Jensen Scholarship for Study Abroad: Awarded to a future teacher of French to help pay for a semester or a year studying French abroad in an accredited program in any Francophone country. Student must be currently enrolled in an established teacher education program in French and must be sponsored by a member of the American Association of Teachers of French. Awards are based on financial need and can be used to cover tuition, fees, travel, or housing costs. Germany The Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange for Young Professionals (CBYX) is a fellowship funded by the German Bundestag and U.S. Department of State, that annually provides 75 American and 75 German young professionals, between the ages of 18-24, the opportunity to spend one year in each other’s countries, studying, interning, and living with hosts on a cultural immersion program.  This funded fellowship opportunity annually covers basic living costs for all 150 participants. DAAD Scholarships for graduate and undergraduate study in Germany DAAD RISE Germany Summer Research Internships in Science and Engineering : Match with a university in Germany on specific research interests in STEM. Provides a monthly stipend for three months to help cover living costs. It also includes international travel costs. You must be a sophomore or above at the time of the internship, and German language skills are not required. DAAD German Studies Research Grant : Offers German Studies Research Grants to highly-qualified undergraduate and graduate students who are nominated by their department/program chairs. The grant may be used for short-term research (one to two months) in Germany Japan Bridging Scholarship : The Bridging Project offers scholarships to American undergraduate students participating in study-abroad programs in Japan. The United States-Japan Bridging Foundation funds scholarships through AATJ to help students study abroad in Japan for a semester or an academic year. Japanese Student Service Organization (JASSO) This program offers scholarships for international students who have interest in studying in Japan. There are many scholarships provided by various organizations that collaborate with JASSO. Deadlines are dependent on the host school in Japan. Morgan Stanley Scholarships for Study in Japan : Co-sponsors of the scholarships are the US-Japan Bridging Foundation and the American Association of Teachers of Japanese, which will coordinate the collection of applications and the initial selection process. The final selection of scholarship recipients will be made by Morgan Stanley management in Tokyo. Eligible students include juniors and seniors at US universities with an interest in policy, economics, or international finance who have been accepted for study in Japan. Kin Chung Lam Scholarship for Study at Soka University, Japan: Funding for airfare, books, expenses not to exceed $3,000 for study for a semester or year-long at the exchange program at Soka University in Japan. Soka University also offers free university housing for two (2) UMass Boston students each year! Japanese language requirement: 1 college-level Japanese course. US-Japan Council Toshizo Watanabe Endowed Scholarship Fund : Provides financial assistance (up to the full cost of attendance) to undergraduate and graduate students for a semester or year-long study abroad program in either the United States or Japan. Can be any credit-bearing university in Japan. Application deadline in March each year. New Zealand Go Overseas & Education New Zealand BIPOC Flight Scholarship - US citizens who identify as BIPOC can apply for a $1,500 free round trip flight to New Zealand to Study Abroad. Deadline is February 15, 2024! Indonesia USINDO Summer Scholarship : An intensive 10-week language & culture studies fellowship held in Yogyakarta, Indonesia for U.S. university students and recent graduates. Italy Pescosolido Family Scholarship Foundation , Inc.: scholarships for study at accredited and acceptable educational institutions in Italy. Applicants should be residents of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and have exhibited ability and serious interest in, or commitment to, the study of the Italian language along with the civilization, culture and history of Italy. It is awarded once a year. The deadline is about the middle of May. Catherine Frisone Scott Center for Italian Cultural Studies at UMass Boston Travel Grant: Will you be traveling to Italy on a UMass Boston-approved program or for an independent project? If so, you are eligible to apply for a grant that you can put toward the cost of that program and travel. Winners will be listed on the Center’s webpage and Facebook page. Grants will be for $500. South Korea The Korea Society Undergraduate Korea Study Abroad Grant Given the Society’s commitment to promoting a greater awareness, understanding and cooperation between the people of the U.S. and Korea, this travel grant, initiated in fall 2023, has been created to ensure a wide-range of undergraduate students have the opportunity to study and live in Korea. However, for some the high cost of travel to and from Korea can present a significant burden and personal funding for travel within the country can be nonexistent. Therefore this travel ‘topping off’ grant has been developed to defray travel expenses for students who would normally struggle financially to realize the life-changing experience of studying abroad, the soft-skill development which future employers want and, most importantly, the chance to cultivate an in-person understanding of Korea, a country of strategic importance to the U.S. Eligibility Requirements * Be enrolled as an undergraduate student in an accredited U.S. college or university. * Be a U.S. citizen or U.S. permanent resident. * Demonstrate a strong interest in Korea. * Demonstrate financial need and a compelling explanation of how the travel grant award is important to them personally. * Intend to enroll (or be enrolled) in a full academic study abroad term in fall 2024 or a full academic year studying abroad in Korea. Benefits: * Travel grant of up to $2,000 USD awarded directly to the student. * Upon returning to the U.S., an opportunity to participate in a panel discussion offered by the Society with other grantees to share insights on the value of studying abroad in the Republic of Korea. Fall 2024 Deadline: June 16, 2024 Learn More and Apply: https://www.koreasociety.org/education/study-abroad Spain UAM Exchange Student Erasmus+ Scholarship : If you are applying to the UAM Exchange Program, we are able to nominate 1 student for a Erasmus Scholarship in Fall 2024 or Spring 2025. The scholarship covers 850€/month (5 months) + 820 € for travel costs and will be paid to student upon arrival to UAM. Additionally, if students belong to a disadvantaged group* they may benefit from additional support of 250€/month extra for students with documented financial aid. Students who apply to the program for Fall 2024 will be sent an application to apply. If scholarships funds are not awarded in Fall 2024, Spring 2025 applications will be sent an application. UK British Universities Transatlantic Exchange Association Sixteen scholarships are awarded to North American students who study abroad at a United Kingdom University that is a member of BUTEX. John C Phelan General Course Scholarships to study for a year at London School of Economics (LSE) in London, UK. Graduate Student Study & Research Abroad Funding UMass Boston Fellowships Office Looking for financial support to pursue your academic goals? Meet with the UMass Boston Fellowships Office to explore different opportunities available to study and research abroad for graduate or undergraduate students. UMass Boston offers a range of fellowship opportunities to fund your research, teaching, or service projects during your undergraduate or graduate studies. Our fellowship awards cover travel and living expenses, giving you the flexibility to focus on your academic pursuits. While some fellowships are geared towards specific fields, others support experiences in any academic discipline. As a current student, alum, or prospective applicant, we are here to help you navigate the application process and identify the programs for which you are eligible. Our team can assist you in preparing all components of your application, including providing information and guidance to your faculty recommenders, holding practice interviews, and providing institutional endorsements. Don't let financial barriers stand in the way of your academic aspirations. Explore UMass Boston's fellowship opportunities today and take the first step towards achieving your academic goals. Study Abroad Scholarships Application Help USAC Tips, Advice & Webinars USAC Tips, Advice and Webinars for your Scholarship Application : https://usac.edu/money-matters/scholarships-and-discounts/webinars Looking for money to help you study abroad, but not sure where to start? USAC offers webinars to help you apply for study abroad scholarships and financial aid, including USAC scholarships, the Gilman Scholarship, and the Freeman Scholarship. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms