- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 UMass Boston Study Confirms Benefits of Unions - Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Study Confirms Benefits of Unions 03/31/2020 |
    Elis Mullins A recent research report titled “The Union Effect in Massachusetts,” part of a new series called Massachusetts Labor Matters, has been published by the Labor Resource Center (LRC) and the Department of Economics at the University of Massachusetts Boston. The series, sponsored by the Future of Work Initiative, explores labor and working-class life in the state of Massachusetts between 2010 and 2017. “ Unions increase wages, and increased wages help working families and the state of Massachusetts in many ways. ” Written by professors of economics Randy Albelda and Michael Carr , and Brian Fitzpatrick ’19, who graduated with an MA in economics from UMass Boston, the inaugural issue analyzes the “union wage effect,” or the difference between the wages, earnings, and benefits in union and non-union jobs. “There is a reason our forefathers fought for the unions throughout the 20th century,” noted Interim Chancellor Katherine Newman. “They recognized what UMass Boston experts have now documented with certainty, that union labor provides steady work at high wages and benefits that keep families secure.” The study began to take shape through a collaboration between the Department of Economics and the LRC: both were interested in the impact of unions from the individual worker to the state level. They wanted to know how higher union wages would contribute to the state’s economy. After a year of study, they found that union workers earned more than their non-union counterparts and were less likely to live in a low-income family. They were also more likely to have a work-based health insurance plan or retirement/pension plan and less likely to be enrolled in Medicaid or CHIP or to need public assistance. This reduces the financial burden on the Commonwealth, freeing up resources for other projects. “Higher rates of unionization will serve to redistribute wealth more equitably and provide workers with a greater degree of security,” said Steve Striffler, director of the Labor Resource Center at UMass Boston. “Unions increase wages, and increased wages help working families and the state of Massachusetts in many ways. Unions do a better job of redistributing wealth more equitably that any government program, and keep people from needing state assistance.” The next issue will examine the type and amount of work that people aged 18-34 do, as well as the obstacles they face. Massachusetts Labor Matters expects to release it in the fall. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms