Composition Program - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments English Composition Program Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English Faculty & Staff Student Resources Composition Program Research & Impact Contact History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Composition Program Mission: The Composition Program at the University of Massachusetts Boston supports students of diverse linguistic backgrounds in their development as writers and critical thinkers across disciplinary, professional, cultural, and community contexts. Our work is founded on the knowledge that writing is a social and rhetorical activity learned over a lifespan. Our two-course sequence, English 101 and English 102, meets the UMass Boston General Education Verbal Reasoning and Expression requirement by helping students learn how to observe and adapt to new writing contexts by knowledge and practices in four key areas: rhetorical knowledge; critical thinking, reading and composing; knowledge of composing processes; and reflective awareness. Ten key concepts in writing and rhetoric make up the core content of English 101 and English 102: inquiry rhetorical situations revision discourse community audience reflection context purpose synthesis genre English 101: Learning Outcomes Most students who pass English 101 should be able to... understand and use key concepts, especially audience, purpose, and rhetorical situation write with a sense of purpose in response to rhetorical situations read (alongside writing) to understand and engage with complex ideas and multiple perspectives read to observe and learn from the rhetorical strategies used in a variety of genres use strategies of analysis and synthesis to discover, develop, and articulate ideas in relation to the ideas of other writers use writing and revision to develop new ideas and perspectives act on feedback about in-progress writing approach writing as a subject of study as well as a practice use an evolving vocabulary for reflecting on composing processes and rhetorical choices in their own writing use reflection to develop and demonstrate conscious awareness of their own writing knowledge and practice as it develops over time and across contexts English 102: Learning Outcomes Most students who pass English 102 should be able to ... understand and use key concepts, with additional emphasis on discourse community, context, and genre use conventions of written genres that suit particular purposes and discourse communities locate secondary sources and evaluate them for credibility and relevance use strategies of analysis and synthesis to develop and articulate an evidence-based position that is complex and purposeful plan, pursue, and revise a sustained and feasible line of inquiry give and act on feedback about in-progress writing approach writing as a subject of study as well as a practice use an evolving vocabulary for reflecting on composing processes and rhetorical choices in their own writing use reflection to develop and demonstrate conscious awareness of their own writing knowledge and practice as it develops over time and across contexts FAQs What is the Composition Requirement? All students are required to take English 101: Composition I and English 102: Composition II, which are prerequisites (and preparation) for upper-level courses and for the Writing Proficiency Requirement . When should I take Composition? You will usually take English 101 in the first semester and English 102 in your second semester. This sequence enables you to take a required Intermediate Seminar in your sophomore year. I took AP English in high school. Do I need to take Composition? Scores of a 4 or 5 on the AP English exam count for EN 101 credit. If you earned a 4 or 5, you may enroll in EN 102. Please contact the Admissions Office if you are unsure about the status of your AP score. I took IB classes in high school. Do I need to take Composition classes? International Baccalaureate (IB) English course credits count as electives, but do not replace English 101 and 102. English is not my first language. Which courses should I take? The Writing Placement Test will determine the best courses for you. You may be advised to take an ESL section of English 101 or English 102 that meets the same graduation requirements and receives the same transcript designation as non-ESL sections. Can I waive the Composition requirement? Some students may be eligible for a waiver or transfer equivalency for one or both courses. Note: If you are a NEW student at UMass Boston, you should complete the Guided Writing Placement program as a first step toward determining which writing courses to take. Applying for a WAIVER: This option is for students who have already successfully completed multiple writing-intensive courses at a college or university -- even if they were not English courses -- which may satisfy the learning outcomes for ENGL 101 or ENGL 102. If you believe you are eligible for a course waiver, y ou may apply for a waiver by submitting an English 101/102 Waiver Application . Applying for a course EQUIVALENCY: This option is for students who have taken identical introductory composition courses at another campus but whose credits were not automatically transferred during the admissions process. If you believe you are eligible for a course waiver, complete the following steps: Collect the following documentation: A copy of the course catalogue description(s) of the course(s) for which you hope to receive ENGL 101 and/or ENGL 102 equivalency. A copy of the course syllabus Your unofficial transcript from your prior college/university Email composition@umb.edu with the aforementioned documents, your student ID #, and which course you believe the materials are equivalent to: ENGL 101 or ENGL 102. Whom should I talk to if I still have questions about English 101 or 102? For general questions about your placement or your schedule, please contact any university advisor. For questions about English 101 or 102, including waiver or equivalency applications, email the Composition Program at composition@umb.edu , call us at 617.287.6704, or stop by our office on Wheatley, 6th floor, room 10. Composition Aids Undercurrents Journal Access Instructor Resources in Google Composition Program Contact Us : General Inquiries: composition@umb.edu Program Director: Lauren Bowen Visit Us : Wheatley, 6th floor, room 10 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms