Projects - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Policy Projects Menu menu Menu About Current Projects Elaine Werby Internship Partners Projects Publications And Reports Cliff Effects The Center for Social Policy is a research and evaluation think tank of choice for policy makers, funders, and business leaders focused on the root causes of poverty through the framework of economic security and economic advancement. For over a decade, the Center for Social Policy has been a pioneer in “cliff effects” research including the development of a simulator that tracks the degree to which families gain or lose resources as earnings increase. Cliff effects are a growing concern due to the rising costs of living, especially housing, coupled with stagnating wages, making it nearly impossible for thousands of low-income working families to make ends meet without supports from public benefits. Read examples of the impact of our cliff effects research on policy and practice Publications Panel Discussion: Benefits Cliffs & Coaching . October, 2021. Economic Mobility Pathways (EMPath). Susan R. Crandall (panelist) Exploring Financial Situations and the Cliff Effect for Single Mother Families in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania. Working Paper. May 2021. Center for Social Policy. Crandall, Susan R., Beauregard, Brian, Eng, Sokha, and Karakilic, Emek Cliff Effects: Turning Research into Action for Economic Mobility Webinar. January 29, 2019. Center for Social Policy. Cliff Effect Simulations for Families in Suffolk County, Massachusetts: Exploring the Impact of Universal Childcare and Housing Assistance . October 2018. Center for Social Policy. Vishakha Agarwal, Brandynn Holgate, Randy Albelda, Caitlin Carey, and Susan R. Crandall “An Overview of Cliff Effects.” Center for Social Policy. November 2017. Susan Crandall, Presented at the Department of Labor Employment and Training Region I Meeting October 2018 at the Boston Federal Reserve Bank. Most Common Bundles of Public Assistance Benefits for Low-Income Massachusetts Families: A Technical Research Brief July 2018. Caitlin Carey. Reference Guide: Identifying Policy Levers to Improve the Massachusetts System of Public Supports for Low-Income Families. Center for Social Policy. February 2018. Jason Wright, Caitlin Carey, Marija Bingulac, and Susan R. Crandall. Analyzing the Massachusetts Public Assistance System: Measuring Coverage Gaps . Center for Social Policy. February 2018. Caitlin Carey and Marija Bingulac. "A Whole Family Approach to Jobs: Helping Parents Work and Children Thrive. National Conference of State Legislators. An Overview of Cliff Effects: Challenges and Solutions." Center for Social Policy. November 2017. Susan Crandall, Presented at the National Conference on State Legislators September 2017 in Portland, Maine. "The Road to the Cliff Edge: Understanding Financial Gaps in Public Assistance Programs Available to Massachusetts Families." Center for Social Policy.  August 2017. Marija Bingulac, Caitlin Carey, Susan Crandall “Combining Earnings with Public Supports: Cliff Effects in Massachusetts.” Communities & Banking. The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 2017. Authors: Randy Albelda and Michael Carr "Between a Rock and a Hard Place: A Closer Look at Cliff Effects in Massachusetts." Center for Social Policy. June 2016. Randy Albelda and Michael Carr "On Solid Ground: Building Opportunity Preventing Homelessness Report." On Solid Ground Coalition. 2015. Center for Social Policy YouTube Channel We the People: The Center for Social Policy Video UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms