Chancellor Statement Diversity Affirmative Action - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home All of Us Black Men Chancellor Statement Diversity Affirmative Action Menu menu Menu AAPI Black Men Academics Career Success Chancellor Statement Diversity Affirmative Action Community Crisis Support File A Complaint Black Women Inclusive Identity Latinidad Native American & Indigenous Pride Racial Climate Survey Chancellor’s Statement on Diversity & Affirmative Action The University of Massachusetts Boston is a leader in higher education as it relates to diversity, access, and excellence. With its urban mission to stand with the city of Boston—a mission established by its founders—the university reflects the growing diversity of the local community it represents and the strengths that these differences in people exhibit. At the University of Massachusetts Boston, 54% of our students are persons of color. Ours is a community that naturally extends itself to, and welcomes into its student body, faculty, and staff, a broad spectrum of people in terms of race, ethnicity, age, and economic background. It is our belief that the academic experience here is enriched and enhanced by the inclusion of the varied backgrounds and perspectives that we all bring to it. The result has been a richness of diversity unmatched by any other public university in New England, a fact in which we take great pride. The University of Massachusetts Boston has reinforced its commitment to and support of the principles of diversity, access, and excellence by incorporating a diversity requirement into the curriculum. We at the university see the realization of the values of diversity and access as critical to the evaluation of excellence in all of our academic programs, at all levels. In keeping with its long and proud tradition of initiatives in support of affirmative action in employment, the university will continue to pursue a comprehensive affirmative action agenda in all areas of the campus. On the one hand, as chancellor I have primary responsibility for achieving our goals in this regard, while delegating authority and daily responsibility for the implementation of our plans to the assistant chancellors and vice chancellors. On the other hand, affirmative action is the responsibility of all who are a part of the university community. I regard all hiring units as responsible for striving to attain our affirmative action goals and implementing our affirmative action and equal opportunity policies. And of course, everyone who is associated with the University of Massachusetts Boston shares in the responsibility of fostering an environment that will allow the strengths of diversity to flourish and the goals of affirmative action to be achieved. Our Affirmative Action Plan reaffirms the campus’s commitment to providing equal employment opportunity to all individuals without regard to race, color, creed, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, age, sex, ancestry, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, or status as a veteran (with particular emphasis on disabled and/or Vietnam-era veterans). The plan reaffirms our dedication to giving all employees and students the opportunity to work and study in an environment free from discrimination and harassment. Finally, the Affirmative Action Plan reaffirms our policy of non-discrimination in all employment decisions. It reasserts our commitment to treating University of Massachusetts Boston employees and applicants equitably and fairly in all matters relating to employment. No university employee or applicant shall be unlawfully discriminated against or harassed. As Boston’s only public research university, we have the unique opportunity and responsibility to represent access to excellence in higher education for a diverse student body, and we will continue to ensure that our employees reflect the diversity of the community we serve. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms