- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Camp Shriver Featured in New Book: Best Practices Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Education & Human Development Camp Shriver Featured in New Book: Best Practices for Inclusive Camps from Sagamore-Venture Publishing! 07/18/2023 |
    Gildea, Barbara Boston, Massachusetts — Sagamore-Venture Publishing is pleased to announce a new release: Best Practices for Inclusive Camps from editors Gary N. Siperstein, Stuart J. Schleien, Martin E. Block, and Emily D. McDowell. This comprehensive resource is designed to help camp leaders and staff create inclusive programs that welcome campers of all abilities, guided by the newly developed "Standards for Inclusive Recreation Programs." Part I of the book addresses best practices in various aspects of camp, while Part II is a series of case studies about inclusive camps that represent both day and overnight programs across a range of organizational affiliations and geographical locations. “ We are thrilled to be featured in "Best Practices for Inclusive Camps" and to raise awareness of the importance of inclusion! ” Over the past decade, there has been a heightened focus on the inclusion of children and adolescents with disabilities alongside their peers without disabilities in recreation programs. Research shows that there are many benefits of inclusive camps, such as increased self-esteem and social connections for campers with disabilities, and greater patience and empathy among campers without disabilities. This book is an essential resource for anyone involved in the administration, planning, or implementation of camp programming, with a focus on helping camp leaders and staff create environments that intentionally foster inclusion for all children. Co-authored chapters represent decades of combined experience in the camping field, with perspectives and examples from major recreation organizations like the American Camp Association (ACA) and the Jewish Community Centers Association of North America (JCCA). Camp Shriver is one of seven camps and organizations highlighted in Part II on exemplary inclusive camps, with a chapter co-authored by Camp Shriver staff and specific examples of Camp Shriver’s inclusive practices. The full list of camps and organizations represented in Part II is below. Arlington County Department of Parks and Recreation (Chapter 8) B'nai B'rith Camp (Chapter 10) Camp Chi (Chapter 7) Camp Howe (Chapter 12) Camp Shriver (Chapter 9) Prince George's County Department of Parks and Recreation (Chapter 8) YMCA Camp Widjiwagan (Chapter 11) To learn more, or to order Best Practices for Inclusive Camps , visit sagamorepub.com/collections/camp . For bulk orders (5+), please contact Sagamore-Venture Customer Service at 1-800-327-5557 or customerservice@sagamorepub.com . For all other inquiries, please contact Misti Gilles, Director of Marketing, at 217-819-5985 or mgilles@sagamorepub.com . ABOUT CAMP SHRIVER A national award-winning model for inclusive recreational programming, Camp Shriver’s mission is to improve the social, emotional, and physical well-being of children of all abilities, by providing an inclusive community of friendship and fun. At Camp Shriver, children with and without disabilities build social skills and positive social relationships by learning and playing together. Camp Shriver is a program of the Center for Social Development and Education at UMass Boston . ABOUT SAGAMORE-VENTURE PUBLISHING For over 40 years, Sagamore-Venture has been providing educational and academic material in the form of books, eBooks, and journals for educators, practitioners, and students. As we move forward in the twenty-first century, the field continues to evolve and expand into a multitude of individualized areas. We are seemingly faced with new and advanced technology and challenges daily. The one constant that remains the same is Sagamore-Venture's mission “to meet the educational needs of the profession.” We currently offer educational materials in the following fields of study: health education, physical education, leisure education, outdoor recreation and education, camp, recreational therapy, park and recreation administration, hospitality and tourism management, sport management, and athletic training. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms