Apply as a Graduate Student - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions Graduate Students Apply as a Graduate Student Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Apply as a Graduate Student Accelerated Master’s Programs International Graduate Applicants Program Requirements & Contacts Estimate Your Program Costs Graduate Students & Assistantships Faculty Resources International Students Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented Apply as a Graduate Student Take The Next Step Choose which graduate program is the best fit. Review your program’s application requirements and deadlines. Applications are open for Spring, Summer, and Fall 2025. Submit your application: Graduate Application Transcripts & Supplemental Materials UMass Boston's Office of Graduate Admissions prefers receiving electronic transcripts via Parchment or National Student Clearinghouse (NSC). Please ensure that transcripts are directed to "UMass Graduate Admissions Only" via Parchment and "Graduate" via NSC. For international credentials, official transcript copies can be electronically sent to  gadocs@umb.edu directly from your institution. An official transcript is one sent to UMass Boston directly from the institution, either electronically or by mail. If an applicant has completed a study abroad program earning more than 6 credits, and these courses and grades are documented on their degree-seeking institution’s transcript, a separate study abroad transcript is not required If you are a current student or alumnus of UMass Boston, the Office of Graduate Admissions will request your official transcript on your behalf. If GRE or GMAT scores are required for your program, request official scores be sent to the University of Massachusetts Boston (institution code 3924). If you are an international applicant, please review our bachelor’s equivalency and English language proficiency requirements. If submitting TOEFL or IELTS scores, request that they be sent to the University of Massachusetts Boston (institution code 3924). If we are unable to determine international degree equivalence, we may ask applicants to submit an external evaluation from the Center for Educational Documentation . The foreign evaluation does not replace the official transcript requirement. If you need to submit other hardcopy materials or cannot send materials to a P.O. Box, you can send materials directly to our office (please allow for additional processing time): UMass Boston Graduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Check Application Status Use the tool below to check the status of your application. If we're missing any portion of your application (e.g., your transcripts, essay, SAT scores, letter of recommendation) the status check will let you know. Check Your Application Status After submitting your application, you should have received an email with log-in information to your personal UMass Boston portal. GPA A minimum, cumulative GPA of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale (or international equivalent) in all undergraduate work. Please note that some programs may require a supplemental list of coursework and/or discipline specific GPA calculation. Please review your program's requirements to confirm. Bachelor's Degree At the time of enrollment, a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited U.S. institution of recognized standing or an international equivalent. International applicants must submit evidence that they have completed the equivalent of a regionally accredited, U.S. university-level bachelor’s degree program. Most international 3-year degrees, including the Indian Bachelor of Arts, Sciences and Commerce degrees, are not considered to be equivalent. Online Application & Fee The nonrefundable application fee is $75. No application fee for UMass Boston alumni! UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Official Transcripts Official transcripts for all institutions where you have earned more than 6 credits. Most transcripts, from an institution in the US, can be requested electronically through Parchment or NSC. For international credentials, official transcripts can be sent electronically to gadocs@umb.edu directly from your institution. An official transcript is one sent to UMass Boston directly from the institution, either electronically or by mail. Original hardcopy transcripts must be sealed in an envelope from the issuing institution. Original hardcopy transcripts must be sealed in an envelope from the issuing institution. Test Scores Some programs require official GRE or GMAT test scores. Please review program requirements to confirm. Applicants who completed undergraduate coursework outside of the United States may be required to submit English proficiency test results, even if they are permanent residents or citizen of the U.S. Please review the international applicant page . UMass Boston’s institution code is 3924. We can only accept official score reports sent electronically or in hardcopy directly from the testing agency. In accordance with Massachusetts state law, Office of Graduate Studies and Graduate Admissions policy permits residents of Massachusetts who have been diagnosed as developmentally disabled (including those with specific language disabilities, such as dyslexia, but not including those whose sole disability is blindness) to request a waiver of the requirement to submit GRE, GMAT, or MAT scores. To qualify for a waiver, an applicant must submit documentation of their disability. Some graduate programs require an alternative mode of assessment (e.g., a writing sample) in lieu of the standardized test score. For information, contact your program of interest . Letters of Recommendation The number of letters required varies by program. Please review program requirements . The recommenders you identify will receive an email with instructions upon submission of the online application. Typically, one or more letters from former professors familiar with your academic abilities provide the strongest recommendations. Recommenders should have worked closely with the applicant in an academic, professional, or community service setting. Letters should not be written by friends or family members of the applicant. Letters should focus on the applicant’s abilities and past academic performance, while also indicating an ability to effectively complete graduate-level coursework. Statement of Purpose The statement of purpose is your opportunity to show the graduate admissions committee why you wish to pursue graduate study, as well as your specific interests and goals. In general the first part of your statement (about 300 words) shares your reason for wanting to attend graduate school while the second part (about 1200 word) indicates your specific interest and the kind of work you would like to do in your intended field. The program to which you are applying may have other instructions regarding the content and nature of this statement. You will be able to upload your Statement of Purpose to your application in .doc or .pdf form. Resume / CV A current resume/CV is required as a part of the admissions application process. Please submit a detailed and concise resume summarizing your education history, academic achievements, professional experiences, extracurricular activities, volunteer work or community involvement, and relevant skills that demonstrate your readiness for graduate study. Consider including an overview of research experience, affiliations, publications, certifications, presentations, leadership experience, and other pertinent professional skills. Admission is granted only for the semester requested and cannot be guaranteed for future semesters. Admission to graduate study does not automatically indicate approval of candidacy for a degree. Please refer to the program-specific requirements for more. Questions? Have questions about the application process or need help submitting your application? Contact graduate.admissions@umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms