Beacon2Beacon - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Dean Of Students Resources for Students Beacon2Beacon Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Emergency Aid Fund Services for Faculty & Staff Forms Resources for Parents And Families Referral & Complaint Forms Resources for Students Beacon2Beacon Students who are Parents or Parents to be Services for Students Contact Us Student Conduct Process Current Students Beacon-To-Beacon Conflict Resolution University life is exciting, challenging and fun! New environment, diverse students, and exciting experiences. At times, however, university life becomes stressful. Scenarios: Your roommate is a night owl while you go to bed early. You like loud music while your roommate prefers that you use headphones. You’re having a problem with your professor and are unsure you are able to resolve it on your own. There’s a student in your class, club, or team, who you can’t ever seem to agree on things with. These differences can lead to conflict. The Beacon-to-Beacon conflict resolution team are students who are here to empower fellow students to handle these situations and more. Who are we? The team is a diverse group, comprised of in-state, out-of-state, and international students, and faculty from the Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance . Beacon-to-Beacon members have experience with handling workplace, student-faculty, student-student, cultural, and community conflicts. What we offer: We offer a range of services targeted at empowering you to address the challenges that are not allowing you to focus on school. These services can include conflict coaching, mediation, facilitation, and understanding your options. Need our assistance? Follow these simple steps: Contact us through this referral form or send an email to beacon2beacon@umb.edu Briefly describe the problem Tell us how to contact you UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms