Getting Here - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Marine Operations Getting Here Menu menu Menu Harbor Cruises Choose Your Cruise Contact Facilities Forms Getting Here Rates Services Staff Map and Directions to the Fox Point Dock Here are the best ways to get to the Fox Point Dock: Public Transportation to Campus Weekdays Take the MBTA Red Line to the JFK/UMass station; use the free shuttle bus to get dropped off at one of two locations: Clark Athletic Center (#2 on the map): Take the Route 2 Shuttle to the Clark Athletic Center circle. Go up the stairs to the plaza level and walk across and into the Integrated Sciences Complex (ISC) (#6 on the map), go down one level, exit the building at the ground level front doors, and follow the yellow arrow on the map. Campus Center (#1 on the map): Take the Route 1 or Route 3 Shuttle to the Campus Center. From that drop-off walk up the stairs to the plaza level of campus, walk across the plaza and into the Integrated Sciences Complex (ISC) (#6 on the map), go down one level, exit the building at the ground level front doors, and follow the yellow arrow on the map. Weekends Take the MBTA Red Line to the JFK/UMass station; use the free shuttle bus to get dropped off at the Campus Center (#1 on the map). From that drop-off walk up the stairs to the plaza level of campus, walk across the plaza and toward Wheatley Hall on your left. Follow signs ‘TO FOX POINT DOCK’ on the building around to the left, go down stairwell #5 two levels and exit the building at the ground level; boat docks will be ahead of you across the street. Driving to Campus If coming to campus, drive and park in the West Garage(highlighted on map) then follow the Walking to Fox Point Dock directions below. Walking to Fox Point Dock The red lines on the map are pedestrian/bike paths; look for the FOX POINT DOCK on your map. Take any nearby pathway–each will lead to the HarborWalk when heading south. The docks are about a 5-10 minute walk along the HarborWalk. Watch for signage along the way. The nearest shuttle bus stop is located by the Integrated Science Complex Building (C on your map). Drop-off for Fox Point Dock A drop-off area is indicated by the blue ‘anchor’ symbol on the map. From here you can walk down a couple of nearby pathways, each leading to the HarborWalk. For general directions to campus, go to Getting Here on the university website. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms