Research - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration Research Menu menu Menu Public Programs Research Services Staff Teaching & Training Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Initiatives Research and Evaluation MOPC’s research and evaluation on community, housing, youth, reentry and child access & visitation mediation, and collaborative governance and violence prevention initiatives helps generate knowledge on critical social issues. This knowledge is shared through publications, conference presentations, policy reports, research collaborations, communities of practice networks, service-learning opportunities, and graduate teaching and training workshops for university students and public managers. Continuous Learning MOPC uses evaluation to assess implementation and impact and demonstrate accountability for publicly funded dispute resolution programs in ways that enable continuous learning and improvement. Evaluators and key stakeholders are partners in a collaborative process of learning and inquiry, and continuous improvement of public programs where evaluation is utilized as a means for influencing change, improving organizational practices, and undermining institutional racism. Participatory Approach MOPC evaluators collaborate with parties to mediation like youth, landlords and incarcerated persons as well as mediators, case coordinators and staff at MA Community Mediation Centers, MOPC program staff, sponsors, funders, other researchers, and legislators. Similarly, MOPC strives to incorporate a culturally responsive and equitable evaluation (CREE) lens into its evaluation to ensure that all community stakeholders, including those who operate and participate in programs, have the chance to contribute to and benefit from the evaluation. Guiding Principles Rigorous research and evaluation of complex public programs to address wicked social problems. Alignment with the public service mission and values of the University of Massachusetts Boston as an urban public research university with a global focus. Linking MOPC’s public programs and research with teaching to improve the overall academic experience of students and public managers. Addressing systemic racism through more inclusive research and evaluation practices. Research and Evaluation Reports For a comprehensive list of research and evaluation studies (e.g., evaluation reports, legislative studies and testimony, white papers, etc.) that MOPC has published, please visit https://scholarworks.umb.edu/mopc_pubs/ . Major Research Studies Hate Crimes Report (2023) MOPC has been supporting conflict resolution experts and graduate researchers at UMass Boston in developing a comprehensive analysis of hate crimes in the U.S. This report is a joint publication of the Center for Peace, Democracy, and Development (CPDD) through its Conflict Early Warning arm, the Conflict Early Warning Analytics Program (CEWAP) and the TRUST Network (TN), which is the first conflict early warning system in the United States. The report focuses on hate crimes, hate groups and their connection to domestic extremism, and the threats posed by these crimes and groups to social cohesion. The hate crimes report was published in December 2023 and is available here: https://scholarworks.umb.edu/cpdd_pubs/7/ Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Study (2023) In 2020 and spanning over three years of systematically engaging, documenting, and analyzing the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) needs/gaps and assets of state-funded community mediation centers in Massachusetts, MOPC was able to compile its findings in a research report based on qualitative research that falls into the category of community-based participatory research conducted through a series of community listening sessions organized and facilitated by seven MA Community Mediation Centers from 2021 to 2022 involving residents from Cambridge, Framingham, Lowell, Lynn, Vineyard Haven, Greenfield, and Leominster in Massachusetts. The study was published in August 2023, which is available here: https://scholarworks.umb.edu/mopc_pubs/35/ Housing Mediation Study (2021) MOPC's research unit, assisted by graduate students, conducted program evaluation and research on the impact of housing mediation on housing stabilization in MA, which involved surveys and interviews with mediation participants, mediators, state agencies, and mediation case coordinators and data collection through a uniform database. The focus of this work was on housing mediation delivered through the program MOPC launched in FY21 with 12 community mediation centers for the Governor’s Eviction Diversion Initiative during the COVID-19 pandemic. The research questions and evaluation metrics were developed in consultation with the Governor’s Office and the Department of Housing & Community Development. MOPC’s evaluation report published in 2021 identified housing mediation as a critical service in ensuring tenancy preservation, preventing homelessness, and improving landlord-tenant communications and relationships. The study is available here: https://scholarworks.umb.edu/mopc_pubs/31/ Court ADR Study (2019) In 2019, the Executive Office of the Trial Court (EOTC) contracted MOPC to conduct research on the current use and effectiveness of court-connected ADR in Massachusetts as well as samples from other states. The research involved undertaking a literature review of existing studies, collecting data on awareness, access, and utilization of court-connected ADR through surveys and interviews of select Massachusetts court personnel and court-approved ADR program representatives, gathering evidence from effective practices and models in Massachusetts and other states on methods to better communicate about ADR programs and formulate strategies for departmental expansion of court-connected ADR with, and without, funding. MOPC completed and published the study in October 2019; the study is available here: https://scholarworks.umb.edu/mopc_pubs/23/ Municipal Conflict Legislative Study (2016) MOPC successfully conducted a comprehensive two-year assessment of municipal conflict resolution needs in Massachusetts in collaboration with municipalities and other stakeholders with recommendations to address those needs. To initiate the study, the Senate and House chairs of the Joint Committee on Municipalities and Regional Government secured a commission for this study in Outside Section 204 of the FY 2015 state budget. MOPC secured a UMass Boston Public Service Grant to fund graduate student research assistants from the McCormack Graduate School. This assessment helped stakeholders identify positive societal outcomes and appropriate solutions strategies to address intractable and destructive municipal conflicts in Massachusetts in collaboration with municipalities and other stakeholders. The Massachusetts Municipal Conflict Resolution Needs Assessment Study Report was released in January 2016 and is available here: https://scholarworks.umb.edu/mopc_pubs/14/ Community Mediation Legislative Study (2011) In 2011, in Outside Section 180 of the FY 2012 State Budget, the Legislature commissioned MOPC to conduct a study of community mediation’s effectiveness for the purpose of increasing access to dispute resolution for Massachusetts citizens. The commission also directed MOPC to develop a state-of-the-art performance-based funding framework to enable state and other investment in community mediation. MOPC conducted extensive research on the value of community mediation, successful models of state-funded community mediation systems in other states and the experiences and best practices of conflict resolution practitioners and stakeholders in Massachusetts. The resulting report published in November 2012, Legislative Study: A framework to strengthen Massachusetts community mediation as a cost-effective public service , articulated a vision for strengthening the mission and deployment of community mediation throughout Massachusetts. As a result, the Legislature passed G. L. Ch. 75, Section 47 as Outside Section 91 to the FY 2013 State Budget establishing the Massachusetts Community Mediation Center Grant Program to be administered by MOPC and setting state policy that recognizes the value of community mediation and directs public agencies to use community mediation for their public missions. Over the years, the Legislature has appropriated millions of dollars to fund the grant program which provides state operating grants to centers that meet state performance-based standards for community mediation. This report is available here: https://scholarworks.umb.edu/mopc_pubs/1/ MOPC Contacts Madhawa “Mads” Palihapitiya , Associate Director, madhawa.palihapitiya@umb.edu Karina Zeferino , Research Associate, karina.zeferino@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms