Culinary - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Sigs Culinary Menu menu Menu About Contact Courses Events Join Sigs Books Culinary Informal Writing Group Intergenerational Book Chat Knitting Group Stonewall At Olli Walking Group Culinary Adventures Culinary Adventures is an OLLI Special Interest Group (SIG) for those who share a mutual interest or curiosity about food and things culinary. History Culinary Adventures began with 20 OLLI members who formed a Food Group in fall 2009. Their goal was to learn something new about food while having a good time. Now there are 156 members, the name has changed to Culinary Adventures, and there have been more than 50 culinary-related events, Group Planning and Coordination The SIG has a four-person steering committee. Each month a different member of the committee takes responsibility for planning and coordinating an adventure on a particular culinary-related topic. Typical Activities There's a mixture of monthly visits to ethnic restaurants, culinary-related talks, museum exhibits, tours, demonstrations, wine tastings, food banks, and classes. Here’s a venue sample from 2018-2019: Sid Wainer & Son ~ Guided tour of specialty gourmet store & herb farm Powisset Farm ~ Visit and cooking demo at CASA farm owned by The Trustees of Reservations The Industry ~ Local fare restaurant Jacob Worth ~ One last visit before the ole' establishment closed Flaming Grill ~ Chinese, Japanese, American buffet Belle Isle Seafood ~ Closest clam shack to Boston serving fresh local seafood. UMass Club Boston ~ private university club stablished in 1970 Hyannis Yacht Club ~ Captain's Table with great food and spectacular views of Lewis Bay Noodle Barn & JP Seafood ~ Japanese food boxes and Vietnamese specialties Membership and Attendance Announcements of Culinary Adventures events come out monthly from the OLLI office. While the member list is large, 20-30 members typically attend each event. The week of the month and day vary, and events generally last about 2 ½ hours. Public transportation is almost always available. If not, car-pooling is arranged. To learn more: Contact one of the members of the Steering Committee. They will be happy to talk with you. Pat Leary at paul_patleary@verizon.net Mary Joyce at mjoyce46@gmail.com Anne Kelly at ballykamk@verizon.net Elaine Kerrigan at gowithinyoga@verizon.net To join us : Contact the OLLI office at 617.287.7312 or at ollireg@gmail.com . Special Interest Groups List Each group is different depending on its focus, and all provide interesting lifelong learning opportunities as well as fun social experiences. See them all. Read More Friends of OLLI A contribution of any size is a gift of knowledge and makes a big difference in the lives of the program and our members. Read More Follow OLLI - UMass Boston Like OLLI at UMass Boston UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms