Asian Studies - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Asian Studies Home Liberal Arts Departments Asian Studies Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Faculty Student Resources Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Welcome to the Asian Studies Department Asian Studies aims to give students a broad knowledge of specific regions of Asia, treating each region from the perspective of a number of different academic disciplines (anthropology, art, economics, film, history, languages, literature, philosophy, political science, religion, sociology, and women’s and gender studies). Request Info Apply Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Asian Studies BA Cross-Cultural East Asian Studies Minor East Asian Languages Minor South Asian Studies Minor About Our Department Besides offering courses in Chinese, Japanese, and Vietnamese language, East Asia faculty also offer courses in East Asian art, literature, film, religion, philosophy, history, and political science. East Asia faculty generally specialize in interdisciplinary treatment of their various subjects. Art courses treat traditional paintings as visual art but also discuss the social role of artists at various periods in Asian history. History courses treat the way that Asian religions and philosophies like Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism and more recently Marxism -- have affected the course of Asian history. Film courses treat Asian film in the context of developing cultural currents in Asia, as well as their impact on the emerging global culture. The aim is to give students a well-rounded picture of the East Asian region, both its history and traditional culture, and present-day conditions and events currently unfolding in this rapidly changing area of the world. UMass Boston offers a major in Asian Studies with two tracks, East Asia and South Asia, as well as three minors. The South Asia Track of the Asian Studies major gives students broad knowledge of the politics, economics, history and culture of the countries of South Asia. Faculty members in the departments of women's, gender, and sexuality studies, English, economics, history, sociology, and art offer a wide array of courses on historic and contemporary South Asia. They also offer individual expertise on the countries of South Asia: India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Afghanistan. The East Asia Track of the Asian Studie s major gives students broad knowledge of the politics, economics, history and culture of the countries of East Asia. In addition to Chinese, Japanese, and Vietnamese languages, the East Asia Track includes courses in East Asian art, literature, film, religion, philosophy, history, and political science. East Asia faculty generally specialize in interdisciplinary treatment of their various subjects. Art courses treat traditional paintings as visual art but also discuss the social role of artists at various periods in Asian history. History courses treat the way that Asian religions and philosophies such as Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism and Marxism have affected the course of Asian history. Film courses treat Asian film in the context of developing cultural currents in Asia, as well as their impact on the emerging global culture. The aim is to give students a well-rounded picture of the East Asian region, both its history and traditional culture, and present-day conditions and events currently unfolding in this rapidly changing area of the world. The minor in Cross-Cultural East Asian Studies is designed for students wishing to develop a broad, multi-disciplinary understanding of the cultures of East Asia (China, Korea, Vietnam, and Japan.) The minor in East Asian languages (Chinese, Japanese, or Vietnamese) is designed for concentrated language study along with coursework in allied disciplines. UMass Boston offers Chinese and Japanese, with limited offerings in Vietnamese as well. Students in this minor must focus on one of these languages and complete coursework through the second year of language study. The minor in South Asian Studies is designed for students wishing to develop a broad, multi-disciplinary understanding of the cultures of South Asia, focusing on India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal, Bhutan, and Sri Lanka. Third Cohort of College of Liberal Arts Faculty Mellon Grant Winners Announced Opportunities Study Abroad Career Services & Handshake Academic Support & Success Resources Faculty & Staff Resources for Students Academic Calendar Asian Studies Courses Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Contact Us Department of Asian Studies Wheatley, 6th Floor, Room 93 Phone: (617) 287-6138 Email Asian Studies Chair Email the Asian Studies Department Administrator UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms