Center for Clinical Education & Research - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Center for Clinical Education & Research Home The Manning College Departments & Centers Center for Clinical Education & Research Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Nursing Exercise & Health Sciences Gerontology Urban Public Health Center for Clinical Education & Research Community Partnership Simulation Student Services Resuscitation Quality Improvement Contact Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Precision. Practice. Professionalism. Embark on a comprehensive nursing journey with challenging coursework and hands-on practicums at the Center for Clinical Education & Research. Our team of clinical and simulation educators is committed to fostering student engagement and unlocking their full potential as they transition to professional practice. Through personalized academic and clinical support, students receive tailored assistance for success in the nursing program. Access to valuable resources empowers students to develop effective academic habits, resulting in a high rate of success. Top-Notch Facilities & Expertise Student Services Simulation-Based Education Resuscitation Quality Improvement Support & Enhance Academics The purpose of the Center for Clinical Education and Research (CCER) is to support and enhance the academic and clinical education of the students in the College of Nursing and Health Sciences. The overarching goal is to contribute to the development of knowledgeable, competent, compassionate registered nurses and health science professionals who are interested in life-long learning and who will enrich their profession and thereby positively impact the health and well-being of their clients. Integrate simulation, experiential learning strategies, and technology throughout the lab curriculum Promote student retention and success through individualized academic and clinical support services Provide knowledge and skill expanding workshops, and service learning opportunities for students. Enhance and promote client safety, quality health care and interdisciplinary communication by advocating for simulation use in the clinical education of health care professionals Participate in simulation research activities Provide continuing education and competency testing for students and health care professionals Provide  a training ground for graduate students and nurse educators in all phases of the simulation process Offer community health promotion and education activities to diverse populations Participate in bridge programs that promote exposure to health care careers for diverse middle and high school students Our Practicum, Our People Community Partnership Simulation Student Services Resuscitation Quality Improvement Our Commitment to the Environment The Center for Clinical Education and Research (CCER) has created a recycling program, SimCycle, to address the issue of waste by decreasing single-use plastic waste. Clear bins with the SimCycle logo are dispersed throughout the skills labs, outpatient exam rooms, and the simulation suite to collect items for repurposing. Students dispose of intravenous tubing, fluid bags, and indwelling catheter kits after practicing their skills on task trainers. Under the direction of the lab manager, a team of work-study students, graduate teaching assistants, and simulation educators developed a cleaning and repackaging process that does not sacrifice the integrity of the product for additional practice. SimCycle enhances student awareness of single-use plastics in health care and their impact on the environment. The program has demonstrated $11,035 in financial savings since its inception in March 2021. Collaboration between students and CCER staff has created a sustainable environment that enriches the educational culture in the nursing simulation lab. Center for Clinical Education & Research Quinn, 1st Floor, Room 32 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 CCER@umb.edu 617.287.7611 Contact Staff UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms