Workshops - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Peace, Democracy & Development Workshops Menu menu Menu About In The Media Key Areas Publications Workshops Workshops CPDD offers a number of workshops to local and international groups in skills related to conflict resolution, dialogue facilitation, mediation, and negotiation.  For the facilitation of these workshops we cooperate with our colleagues at partner organizations like Essential Partners in Cambridge, MA. CPDD workshops include: Peacebuilding and Interfaith Dialogue This highly interactive training explores an array of methods through which religious conflicts can be mediated and resolved. It is designed to understand the core of religious conflicts and evaluate approaches to improve religious relations through several mediation theories and practices. The curriculum integrates mediation research from several academic fields and forms an experiential learning exercise. Participants engage in a series of workshop simulations set in different premise of religious conflict. The training builds from two parties mediation to multiple party mediation. Some of the exercise emphasizes the processes of mediation, the psychological aspects, the creation of value and the dynamics of coalition in mediating religious conflict. Skill-Building: Facilitation of Inter-Ethnic/Sectarian Dialogue in Conflict Zones This workshop focuses on building skill sets in facilitation and dialogue processes, which can be used effectively in violence-prone societies. Examples are drawn from trainings in numerous conflict zones around the world. The workshop is usually divided in four parts. During each session, approaches related to the day’s topic are presented, followed by participatory exercises, which will give students firsthand experience in dealing with at least some aspect(s) of the subject. The first part focuses on the understanding of Ethno/Sectarian conflict by assessing the nature of contemporary conflict, the relationship between identity-based and substantive conflict drivers, and a typical conflict cycle. The subsequent part examines approaches to transformation of perceptions, mentalities, and behavior as well as means to bridge ideological divides and to address relational dynamics. Section three of the workshop is dedicated to the reconciliation process by examining concepts such as dealing with grief, grievances, and fears, evaluating practices involving apology, justice and forgiveness, and the use of such processes in countering violent extremism. The final part looks at the overall facilitation process and practice. It assesses various types of facilitation and concludes with a role-play. Contact Us for Your Workshop with CPDD If you or your organization is interested in taking part in a CPDD workshop, or would like additional information, please contact us via email cpdd@umb.edu . We will be happy to develop a workshop that fits your needs. You can also see all upcoming workshops in the events section of our website. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms