Nantucket - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Nantucket Field Station Home Nantucket Menu menu Menu People Research & Impact Courses & Opportunities K-12 Experiences Seminars Facilities A living laboratory for scientific exploration and discovery. The Nantucket Field Station, a facility of UMass Boston's School for the Environment , is a 107-acre field site of pristine salt marsh, rolling uplands, and harbor waterfront which provides education, research, and community service. Reservation Request Support the Field Station Research in Action With its diverse habitats Nantucket Island offers a rich tapestry for studying coastal ecology, marine life, and biodiversity. As a student or researcher, you'll have unparalleled access to this vibrant ecosystem, enabling you to conduct hands-on fieldwork and contribute to important environmental research. Courses Apply for courses on Nantucket. Build field experience outdoors this summer. Scholarships available. Internships Join our staff as an intern, conduct a capstone study or participate in a workshop. Explore our immersive options. Research Discover ongoing projects. Find out what UMass faculty and students are up to and our visiting collaborators. Explore The Nantucket Field Station People Research & Impact Facilities K-12 Experiences Upcoming Events Join us on Nantucket in celebrating the 20th anniversary of Nantucket Biodiversity Initiative (NBI) ! All week from October 1 to October 6, 2024 events will be hosted by various members of NBI including the UMass Boston Nantucket Field Station!  In particular visit the field station on Sunday the 6th for marsh biodiversity activity or the afternoon wrap up session! Click here for the full calendar of events and the registration links. Field Skills Workshops Plug into a project, contribute while gaining field, lab and analytical skills. Tour Nantucket! Learn about the workshops About Us We are a world-class research and educational institution and a deeply engaged member of the Nantucket community. Who We Are The UMass Boston Nantucket Field Station is a field facility for education and research, managed by the School for the Environment and interwoven within the local community. Mission The mission of the UMass Boston Nantucket Field Station is to provide education, research, and community service opportunities in conjunction with faculty members and students of the University of Massachusetts Boston, the University of Massachusetts system, the people of Nantucket, and other educational and research organizations both on and off Nantucket. In 2004, the Nantucket Conservation Foundation signed a purchase agreement with the Trustees of the University to purchase the field station, protecting the land and allowing UMass Boston to operate the facility in perpetuity. What We do The UMass Boston Nantucket Field Station offers immersive credited university field courses, supports a wide range of field research and public education. Visiting researchers come here from a range of educational institutions and agencies, not only from UMass Boston to conduct research, on a group field trip or both. Contact Us Nantucket Field Station 180 Polpis Road Nantucket, MA 02554 Phone: 508.228.6268 General Email: NFS@umb.edu Director: Yvonne.Vaillancourt@umb.edu Hours: Spring/Summer: 9 AM-7 PM Fall/Winter: 9 AM - 4:30 PM (or by appointment) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms