Student Employment - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students Student Employment Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment Community Service Conduct Contact Disciplinary Procedures Eligibility Federal Work Study Hiring Off Campus Work Study Paperwork Resources For Employers Rest Periods Wage Guidelines University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Student Employment Student Employment Services (SES) lines up jobs that help you pay for college while focusing on your studies. SES is part of Financial Aid Services in the Division of Enrollment Management, located on the 4th floor of the Campus Center. SES uses the Handshake website to list all of the opportunities available in the Federal Work-Study and Non-Work-Study ( Institutionally Funded) programs, including community service opportunities . Disclaimer: Student Employment Services reserves the right to modify and update Student Employment guidelines, regulations, policies and procedures, as needed and without notice, to comply with governmental and University regulations. Please remember that companies listed on Handshake do not have any affiliations with UMass Boston. While we make every effort to make sure the information is from secured sources, use your discretion when reviewing employment opportunities. Employment Categories Federal Work Study Off-campus Work Study Part-Time Jobs Off-campus Hiring Process For Students What is a Student Employee? A UMass Boston Student Employee is a student that holds a part-time, non-benefited position with the University or its partners. Positions may be limited to work-study eligible students or eligible non-work-study students. Student employees often work on campus in academic offices and student services to assist the operations of each department. Students may also work outside of school with local organizations and public service agencies. Eligibility Requirements Students must be actively enrolled in classes during the term of employment with the exception of Summer term. Review the terms of Eligibility for Student Employment Eligibility Federal Work-Study - Students must qualify and be awarded with a federal work-study award Non-Work-Study (Institutionally Funded) - Open to all eligible actively enrolled students Types of Work On-campus positions with academic, administrative, and student services departments Off-campus work-study positions in community service and with local businesses Off-campus part-time and seasonal jobs with local businesses How to Apply Students should set up an account on our online job portal, Handshake , to view the job listings. Follow the application procedures provided on each job listing. Pay Rates Student employees are paid on an hourly wage. The rate of pay corresponds to the Pay Grade Level of each position: Pay Grade Level II: ($15/hr) Pay Grade Level III: ($15.25-$15.50/hr) Pay Grade Level IV: ($15.75-$16.75/hr) After being hired, what’s next? Once SES receives the request from the hiring department, students will receive an email with instructions on how to complete the required pre-employment paperwork. Review this Student Pre-Employment Checklist for an overview. Once the paperwork is submitted, it’s evaluated by SES and then forwarded to HR for their approval. Students should not start work until they receive an authorized start date from SES. All student employees are paid on a bi-weekly basis via direct deposit. It is the student's responsibility to make sure that their time is reported accurately. Conditions of Employment and Expectations of a Student Employee Student employees are expected to perform their jobs at their best effort and present themselves in a courteous and professional manner to other students, staff, faculty, and the public. Student employees are expected to adhere to the policies of their work department and seek clarification with their supervisor when questions arise. Student employees are expected to follow the guidelines in Student Employment Eligibility . Hiring Process For Supervisors Overview View the Hiring Manager Checklist for an overview of the process. How to Post a Job The hiring department will need to review and complete this job description form which highlights the details about the responsibilities and duties of the position. Student Employment Services (SES) will evaluate the Pay Grade Level based on the information provided on the form and generate a job number. Jobs Posting and Interview Process Student positions are listed via the online job portal, Handshake . Students will follow the application procedures as instructed on the job description. Departments may choose their selection of candidates for interviews and present an offer to the selected candidate once a decision is made. Departments will need to submit the Candidate Selection Form to initiate the paperwork and payroll process. Pre-Employment Process Once Student Employment Services receives the Candidate Selection Inquiry, the student will be contacted with instructions to fill out the pre-employment paperwork needed before starting the position. Students are not allowed to work prior to the completion of the pre-employment paperwork. The department will receive a confirmation email with the authorized start date from which employment may begin once Student Employment Services verifies the work eligibility of the student. Electronic Personnel Action Form (ePAF) The Department will submit the ePAF hiring form after receiving the email confirmation from Student Employment Services. ePAF should be submitted in a timely manner according to the timeline dates on the confirmation. ePAF review may take up to two weeks to process. Timesheets and Payroll Departments are required to maintain verifiable records of weekly timesheets of hours worked by the students. Timesheets must be reviewed by the supervisor and inputted into HR Direct by the Department Timekeeper on a weekly basis. All timesheets must reflect true and accurate hours worked. Falsifying a timesheet is a fraudulent act and a violation of University policy. Timesheets hours that are not verifiable or are improperly documented on a work-study student will be charged back to the department as non-work-study hours. It is the Department’s responsibility to ensure all timesheet hours are accurate and submitted in a timely manner. Timekeeping access on HR Direct can be requested through the Human Resources office. Conditions of Employment - Supervisors The hiring department is required to submit a job description form on each student position before a job can be posted or offered to a student. Departments cannot allow students to work prior to the completion of the pre-employment paperwork and receipt of an authorized start date. Departments are responsible for providing the necessary training and resources needed to help the students perform their job successfully. Departments should review their office policies with the students and are encouraged to conduct evaluation and provide constructive feedback to help students with performance and behavioral improvements. Departments must submit timesheets in a timely manner to prevent payment delays to the students. Departments must keep accurate timesheet records and monitor the work-study balance or departmental budget to prevent overspending. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms