Give - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving at UMass Boston Giving at UMass Boston We are grateful for your interest in supporting the University of Massachusetts Boston. Your donation makes a difference in the lives of our students, the research of our faculty, and the mission of our university. Our campus thrives every day because of our loyal supporters. How to Give Online Giving Gift Planning Endowment Support UMass Boston Give the gift of a world-class education. Donate Alumni News Explore All News Alumni Engagement to Host Inaugural Golden Reunion Society Celebration 08/19/2024 | Office of Alumni Engagement UMass Boston's Latino Leadership Program Celebrates 35 Years with Transformative $3 Million Gift 04/17/2024 | Andrea Kennedy Alumni Engagement to Host Inaugural Golden Reunion Society Celebration 08/19/2024 | Office of Alumni Engagement See Your Impact Your gifts to UMass Boston provide resources that empower achievements in every corner of our campus. Thank you for investing in our tenacious students, talented faculty, academic programs, and community-engaged research. With likeminded donors, you are creating an engine of opportunities that propel our campus forward. Thank you for your generosity. Read How Philanthropy is Making a Difference Beacons for Life If you hold a degree from the University of Massachusetts Boston, you are automatically a member of the UMass Boston Alumni Association. The Alumni Association provides opportunities for alumni and friends to stay connected with their alma mater through communications, programs, and services that foster a lifelong relationship with the campus. Stay Connected, Get Involved, & Support Our Beacons Contact Adam Wise Vice Chancellor for University Advancement Healey Library, 11th Floor 617.287.5320 giving@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms