What To Bring - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Housing & Dining On Campus Future Residents What To Bring Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining On Campus About Us Current Residents Floor Plans Room Rates Future Residents Microfridge Room Furniture Details What To Bring Housing FAQs Housing Payment Information Resident Assistant Resident Health Requirements Roommate Resources Spend Your Summer At Umass Boston Summer Conference Housing Meal Plans Off Campus Policies & Forms Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students What to Bring We are excited to welcome you as a resident at UMass Boston! The below sections contain information about items to consider bringing and items that are not permitted. If there is something not listed, please feel free to email with specific questions. Considering purchasing something specific? Send us a link so we can review and let you know if it will be allowed. What is provided in the room? Each resident living on campus will have the following provided: Desk and chair Three-drawer dresser (quads have two-drawer dressers per person) Twin XL bed (frame and mattress) Wi-Fi access, streaming service, and internet ports Window blinds What should I not bring? This list is not all encompassing, please feel free to email with specific questions. You may be asked to remove these items if found in your room. Damages resulting from the below items will be assessed and posted to your housing account: Air conditioner Appliances - nothing with exposed heating elements (see Permitted Appliances section for items allowed) Candles (with or without the wick), wax melter, incense, or any type of flame-making device; kerosene; propane; butane; lighter fluid; or space heaters LED adhesive strip lights Speaker systems and subwoofers that may be disruptive to others in the community. Command Strips, tape for decorations, poster glue, etc. Darts No outside furniture and/or upholstered furniture. Cannabis, illegal drugs and/or paraphernalia - this is regardless of the age of the student Alcohol and related paraphernalia (including items for decoration) - this is regardless of the age of the student Multi-outlet plugs or extension cords (use surge protectors) Oil, halogen, or lava lamps Pets (except fish in tanks under 10 gallons). This includes any visiting pets. Shower head, bidet (no alterations to any plumbing items within the building are permitted). Waterbeds Weapons (of any type) What appliances are permitted? The following appliances are permitted in the residence halls: Keurig Electronic kettle Air fryer Rice cooker Crockpot/Slow cooker Microwave (no greater than 700 watts) Mini-fridge (no larger than 3.1 cubic feet) Double occupancy rooms are permitted 1 Triple and Quad rooms are permitted up to 2 Televisions (wall mounting not permitted) UMass Boston does partner with MicroFridge for rental and purchase. You can order your Microfridge by entering University of Massachusetts Boston in the search field on their website. It is strongly recommended that each room have a mini-fridge and microwave.  Be sure to coordinate with your roommate as to who will bring the mini-fridge and microwave. Suggested bedroom items To help make your home away from home comfortable, please consider the following items to bring with you: Alarm clock Clothes hangers Desk lamp Desk organizer and supplies Twin extra-long sheets/comforters/blankets Garbage can and bags, recycling bin Pillows/pillow cases Personal fan Personal Iron (if possible, with automatic shut off) Power Strips/Surge Protectors (not extension cords) Storage bins/footlocker Charging cables Suggested bathroom related items You may be assigned to a room either with an in-room bathroom or you may use a community bathroom. The below list are suggested items for you to use while a resident at UMass Boston. Garbage can and bags (only for those with in-room bathroom; these are provided in the community bathrooms) Over the door hook Rug/bathmat (only for those with in-room bathroom) Shower curtain, plastic liner curtain and hook  (only for those with in-room bathroom; these are provided in the community bathrooms) Shower organizer Soap dish and toothbrush holder Toilet paper Towels Shower shoes (if desired) Suggested health related items Managing your health is an important step to being successful. Below is a list of suggested items to bring with you: Antibacterial bar or pump soap and paper towels Cloth face coverings/masks (at least two) Cough medicine Fever reducing medication (Acetaminophen and/or Ibuprofen) Hand sanitizer (at least 60% alcohol content) Insurance card and COVID-19 vaccination card Kleenex List of allergies and current medication Prescription medication(s) Primary care health care provider contact information Thermometer for personal use Throat lozenges/cough drops Suggested cleaning supplies Residents are required to clean their living area. This will not only help provide a clean environment to live, but will also help to keep those in the room healthy. The following items are suggested to have (and use) in the room: All-purpose, tub, tile, glass, and toilet cleaner (only for those with in-room bathroom) Broom, dustpan and/or mop Other cleaning supplies as wanted Suggested miscellaneous items Laundry detergent (h/e preferred), laundry bag or basket Re-usable water bottle (water filling stations are located on the ground floor of each building) Umbrella Weather appropriate items Plastic and or metal storage items Thumbtacks or push pins to put decorations up Items to note Each room has a limited level of electricity available for all items in the room. Please keep this in mind as overloading the outlets will cause power outages. Please do not use Drano as it damages the pipes in the building. Flushable Wipes should not be flushed as they clog the plumbing. When hanging items, please note that students should not use nails, staples or adhesives (including but not limited to command strips, tape, poster glue etc.). Thumbtacks or push pins are the only approved way to hang items in your residence hall room. Residents are able to bring bikes, hoverboards and electronic scooters to campus, however they are not able to be stored in the Residence Halls. They must be locked to a bike rack either outside of the Residence Halls or int he West Garage. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms