Mental Health Crisis Suicide Awareness Support - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Resources4U Mental Health And Staying Safe From Violence Mental Health Crisis Suicide Awareness Support Menu menu Menu Financial Resources Food Insecurity Support Home Heating Reources Mental Health And Staying Safe From Violence African American Black Identity Support Services Asian American Pacific Islander Support Services Connect Online To Talk About Mental Health Getting Control Over Your Drinking And Or Drug Use Health And Well Being During The Covid 19 Pandemic Helping Others Take Care Of Their Mental Health Information On Affordable Health Insurance Interfaith Services And Resources Latinx Hispanic Mental Health Support Services Lgbtq Community Mental Health And Support Services Mental Health Crisis Suicide Awareness Support Mindfulness Self Care Native American Indigenous Mental Health Support Physical And Emotional Health Programs At UMB Prejudice And Discrimination Self Care And Support Staying Safe From Sexual or Partner Violence Substance Misuse Resources And Support Groups Telehealth And Telemedicine Tips For Survivors Of Disaster Or Traumatic Event Veterans Mental Health Resources Support Services Where To Get Help If You Are Discriminated Against Other Support Prejudice Resources To Share With Family And Friends Tenants Rights And Protections Mental health crisis & suicide awareness and support resources If the person is an immediate danger to themselves or someone else, do not hesitate to call 911 and let them know you are with someone or you are experiencing a mental health crisis. What is a mental health crisis? A mental health crisis is any situation in which a person’s actions, feelings, and behaviors can lead to them hurting themselves or others, and/or put them at risk of being unable to care for themselves or function in the community in a healthy manner. Mental Health Resources for UMass Boston Students Contact the UMB Counseling Center . For emergencies Mon-Wed 8:30am - 7:00pm and Thurs-Fri 8:30am - 5:00pm, please call at 617-287-5690. For after-hours emergency assistance, call 617-287-5690 to speak with a licensed clinician who can offer support, crisis recommendations and assist you with finding local resources Additional Mental Health Resources Suicide Prevention & Crisis Helplines National Suicide Prevention Lifeline 1-800-273-TALK (8255) connects you with a crisis center closest to your location 24/7. Your call will be answered by a trained crisis worker who will listen empathetically and without judgment. The crisis worker will work to ensure that you feel safe and help identify options and information about mental health services in your area. Your call is confidential and free. Call 1-800-273-8255 or Web Chat Massachusetts Emergency Services Program Available 24/7, Call 1-877-382-1609 Massachusetts Crisis Hotline Directory Suicide prevention, domestic violence, and other crisis hotlines young adults, and their friends and families. Samaritans College students and others can receive support, respect, acceptance and tolerance – for whatever reason 24/7 Call or Text 877-870-HOPE (4673) Steve Fund offers a 24/7 crisis text line for young people of color. Offers connection to a live, trained Crisis Counselor. Text 741741 The Trans LifeLine offers peer support for trans folks 9am-3am CT:1-877-565-8860. This hotline is staffed exclusively by trans operators is the only crisis line with a policy against non-consensual active rescue. The Trevor Project offers phone, chat, and text crisis services 24/7 (with trained counselors) for LGBTQ identifying young people in crisis, feeling suicidal, or in need of a safe and judgement-free place to talk. Call the TrevorLifeline at 1-866-488-7386, text START to 678678, or visit their website. Crisis Survival Skills DBT Crisis Survival Skills is a video that is especially helpful for people feeling like they’re in the middle of a crisis, or otherwise experiencing really intense and heightened emotions. These tips can help offer immediate relief or management of an intense reaction. Now Matters Now is an online suicide prevention program designed to teach life-saving skills and coping mechanisms to those most at risk. The website features videos and stories that provide skills and support for coping with suicidal thoughts. To Write Love on Her Arms is a non-profit movement dedicated to presenting hope and finding help for people struggling with depression, addiction, self-injury, and suicide. TWLOHA exists to encourage, inform, inspire, and also to invest directly into treatment and recovery. NAMI’s Teens and Young Adults Page NAMI’s Teens and Young Adults Page , NAMI on Campus , NAMI Ending the Silence & NAMI OK2TALK Talking about Mental Health. Share what’s on your mind. Protecting Student Mental Health on College Campuses Protecting Student Mental Health on College Campuses Jed Foundation empowers teens and young adults with the skills and support to grow into (emotionally) healthy adults. Center for Young Women’s Health and Young Men’s Health Center for Young Women’s Health and Young Men’s Health The Center for Young Women’s Health (CYWH) The Center is an educational entity that is committed to providing teen girls and young women with carefully researched health information, educational programs, and conferences. Young Men's Health (YMH) The purpose of the website is to provide carefully researched health information to teenage boys and young men. The Tribe Wellness Community The Tribe Wellness Community Online peer support groups for Adults, and teens facing mental health challenges and/or difficult family dynamics. Children of Parents with a Mental Illness (COPMI) Children of Parents with a Mental Illness (COPMI) Australian website that offers online resources explaining a parent’s mental illness to children. (App) MindShift:(Apple and Android; Free) Helps adolescents, teens, and young adults gain basic skills to manage their symptoms of anxiety, including GAD, social anxiety, phobias, and panic attacks. Therapists and Mental Health Providers Therapy Matcher provides free, personalized, and confidential referrals to licensed social workers across Massachusetts. William James College INTERFACE Referral Service are keenly aware of the shortage of mental health providers of color and how racial inequities exist in medical and mental health care. This mental health and wellness referral Helpline is available Monday through Friday, 9 am-5pm, at 888-244-6843 (toll free). UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms