Applying - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Graduation Applying Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Forms Graduation Applying Diplomas & Certified Electronic Credentials Graduation Process Faculty & Staff Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Applying for Graduation Applying for graduation is the only way to let UMass Boston know you are finishing your degree. All students are required to apply for graduation regardless of whether you will attend the commencement ceremony. Submit your application the deadlines below; specific dates are published on the Academic Calendar . Graduation Term Degree Date (not the ceremony) Application Deadline Graduation Fee Posted Spring May 31 2nd Friday in March Spring bill Summer August 31 2nd Friday in March Summer bill Fall December 31 Last Friday in October Fall bill Planning for Graduation Planning for Graduation and How to Apply Connect with your Advisor or Program Director to review your degree requirements and use the checklists below to decide on the best graduation date. Undergraduate Graduation Checklist Graduate Graduation Checklist You must apply for graduation through WISER (students completing a certificate/degree En Route to another degree and AMP students see Special Application Circumstances below) Once logged in, select My Academics > Graduation > Apply for Graduation . This video guides you through the steps in WISER to submit your graduation application. Applying for graduation generates the mandatory, one-time, non-refundable, non-transferable Graduation Processing Fee. The fee is assessed once per career (Undergraduate/Graduate) for all Bachelor's, Master's, & Doctoral degrees as well as all post-graduate certificates (PMC, CAGS, EdS). The fee can be viewed on your account summary in WISER in the graduation term you applied for. Special Application Circumstances En Route Certificate/Degrees If you are completing a certificate or master’s degree and are continuing with another degree (master, certificate, or doctorate), you must complete the En Route Degree Completion form instead of applying in WISER. The form is due by the published filing deadline for the semester in which the certificate or degree is being completed. The Graduation Team will process the form and apply the en route plan for graduation. For example: You are currently enrolled in a PhD program and your GPD has confirmed you have completed all the requirements for the master’s degree in the same program. Please note not all PhD programs have en route degree options. Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s Programs (AMP) 5 Year Students AMP students apply for graduation twice. The first time when you are completing your Bachelor's degree and again when completing your masters degree. Specific details about the Accelerated Master's Program requirements found here: The AMP Website Bachelor's Degree Use the Undergraduate Checklist above to make sure you are on track to earning your Bachelors degree and apply for the degree date in WISER. Undergraduate students will be invited to the commencement ceremony aligned with their bachelor's degree date. Master’s Degree Use the Graduate Checklist above to make sure you are on track to earning your Master’s degree and apply for the degree date in WISER. Graduate students will be invited to the commencement ceremony aligned with their master's degree date. How to Change your Graduation Date Check your Graduation Status in WISER. My Academics > Graduation > Graduation Status If you are applied for graduation and realize that the degree date you are applied for is no longer correct, email the Graduation Team directly and we will update your record. Please note the Graduation Processing Fee remains on the bill of your first application. Undergraduate Graduation ugrad@umb.edu Graduate Graduation graduate.records@umb.edu Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms