Research & Impact - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Business Academic Departments Accounting & Finance Research & Impact Menu menu Menu Message from the Dean Student Resources Academic Departments Accounting & Finance Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Management Management Science & Information Systems Marketing Faculty & Staff Research & Impact BEST Boston Research & Impact Faculty Research Faculty in the Accounting & Finance Department regularly publish cutting-edge research in top academic journals, win external funding for their research, and receive awards for their scholarship. “Rounding of Earnings Per Share and Managerial Insider Selling” (Robert Kim, with external co-authors) Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics . “Less Timely Earnings Announcements and Voluntary 8-K Filings” (Robert Kim, with external co-authors), Journal of Business Finance & Accounting . “Do More Able Managers Provide Better Non-GAAP Earnings?”, (Robert Kim, with external co-authors) Accounting & Finance . “Does Sell-Side Debt Research Have Investment Value?” (Robert Kim, with external co-authors) Accounting and Business Research . "Does Competition Exacerbate Investment Inefficiencies? Evidence from Japanese Firms", (Surjit Tinaikar with Bo Xu*), International Review of Economics and Finance . “Pay Inequalities and Readability of Corporate Financial Disclosures”, (KoEun Park) Managerial Finance . “Does corporate social responsibility play a moderating role in trading silence prior to bad news earnings announcements?” (Atreya Chakraborty, Lucia Silva-Gao, Sangwan Kim and Liu, R.*) Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance . Firm-level risk of climate change: Evidence from climate disasters” (Ai, L.* Lucia Silva-Gao), Global Finance Journal . “Executive compensation linked to corporate social responsibility and firm risk”, (Lucia Silva Gao, Zhou, H.* and an external co-author), International Journal of Managerial Finance , 19(2), pp.269-290. “Corporate social responsibility and litigation risk: Evidence from securities class action lawsuits” (Atreya Chakraborty, Lucia Silva Gao and Musa, P.*), Accounting & Finance . “Are California Venture Capitalists The Best Venture Capitalists?” (Tyler Hull with Luna Goldblatt*) Cogent Economics & Finance . “Style drifts in venture capital”, (Tyler Hull) in The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity. Corporate Patenting, Customer Capital, and Financial Market Outcomes” (Mine Ertugrul, Bo Xu* and other external co-authors), Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis . "Generalist CEOs, management risk and internal control weaknesses, (Xiaolu Xu), Journal of Business Finance and Accounting . How do auditors respond to clients’ technological peer pressure? Evidence from going-concern opinions” (Xiaolu Xu and other external co-authors) Journal of Business Finance and Accounting . “Market for corporate control and demand for auditing: Evidence from international M&A laws” (Jay Lee with external co-authors) Review of Accounting . “Does the market value the accounting expertise of chief financial officers? evidence from the market value of cash holdings” (Jay Lee, Li Gao* and Yong-Chul Shin), Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance . "Technological Peer Pressure and Skill Specificity of Job Postings," (Chi Wan and external co-authors) Contemporary Accounting Research . "Is social capital associated with individual social responsibility? The case of social distancing during the Covid-19 pandemic", (Chi Wan and external co-authors), Empirical Economics . "Fund manager skill in an era of globalization: Offshore concentration and fund performance," (Chi Wan and external co-authors), Journal of Financial Economics . "Social capital and individual ethics: Evidence from financial advisers’ misconduct," (Chi Wan, Yijia Eddie Zhao and external co-authors), Journal of Business Ethics . "Active Technological Similarity and Mutual Fund Performance," (Chi Wan and external co-authors), Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis . “Corporate Social Responsibility Report Readability, Credit Ratings and Cost of Borrowing”, (Kun Yu and Priya Garg*), Review of Accounting and Finance . *UMass Boston PhD student. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms