Informal Recreation - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Athletics Recreation Informal Recreation Menu menu Menu Recreation Member Services Facilities & Hours Fitness Intramural Sports Informal Recreation Student Employment Instructional Offerings Waterfront Recreation Informal Recreation Recreation opportunities occur in the Clark Athletic Center and the Beacon Fitness Center. Our staff is dedicated to maintaining open recreation space for all registered members of Recreation to engage in various recreational activities without prior reservations. To learn how to register please go to our membership page. Recreation Schedule Players are encouraged to be inclusive of others during open recreation hours. Unreserved open recreation activities such as Basketball, Table Tennis, and Skating are available on a first-come-first-serve basis. UMass Boston recognized groups and/or clubs are not allowed to utilize open recreation spaces or times for their activities (these groups must reserve in advance only). Times are subject to change due to special events and facility maintenance. Recreation: Racquet Court: Outdoor Lawn Games: You are now able to check out lawn games like Spikeball, Corntoss boards, Ladder ball, and more! All equipment can be checked out at the Beacon Fitness Center.  Equipment can be reserved through the UMB Recreation portal in advance. BASKETBALL: Located on the lower level of the Clark Athletic Center (Clark Gym) Equipment may be checked out through the staff in the gym. VOLLEYBAL L: Located on the lower level of the Clark Athletic Center (Clark Gym). We set up one net on court 3 during open gym hours. Equipment may be checked out through the staff in the gym. BADMINTON : The Clark gym has 3 official lined badminton courts. Instructions on how to reserve a court go here or stop the Clark gym as see the Informal Rec attendant. We also offer Table Tennis during open gym hours.  Equipment may be checked out through the staff in the gym. ICE SKATING : Located on the lower level of the Clark Athletic Center. We usually offer open ice skating up to four times per week around the ice rink schedule.  Rental skates are available to check out for free for UMB Recreation members! RACQUETBALL & SQUASH: We have one racquetball court located in the Beacon Fitness Center.  The court can be converted to play racquetball or squash. Equipment can be checked out at the desk.  The court can be booked in advanced on hourly time blocks by UMB Recreation members by visiting the UMB Recreation portal . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms