Student Writing Groups & Retreats - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Writing Center Services For Students Student Writing Groups & Retreats Menu menu Menu About Us Services For Faculty Services For Students Consultations Undergraduate Writing Resources Graduate Writing Resources Student Writing Groups & Retreats University Resources Student Writing Groups & Retreats Student Accountability Writing Groups The Writing Center organizes writing groups for students. These are accountability writing groups, designed to provide UMass Boston students from any discipline and at any stage of their studies with time and space to work on their writing in the company of others. We define writing broadly, so writing groups can be used to work on research, creative writing, reading for class, studying, data analysis, revision, brainstorming, drafting, reading, and any other part of the writing process. We start each writing group with a short goal-setting conversation and wrap up by celebrating our accomplishments. Since these are accountability writing groups, participants don’t exchange writing, instead, we work independently. The writing groups provide accountability and community. Learn more about our current writing group offerings on this page. Register for the Tuesday Fall Writing Group Register for the Sunday Fall Writing Group Fall 2024 Tuesdays Hybrid  Student Writing Group The fall 2024 hybrid accountability student writing group meets on Tuesdays, from 10am tom 12:30pm starting September 17. We'll meet in Campus Center 4th Floor, Room 4201 and on zoom. Register to attend . You only need to register once, and you’ll receive an email with more information and the zoom link ahead of the writing group. Participants don’t have to attend every writing group nor stay the whole time. These writing groups are meant to work around your schedule, so come and go as you’re able. Fall 2024 Sundays Virtual  Student Writing Group The Fall 2024 virtual writing group will run on Sundays from 5-7:30pm while classes are in session. The first session is Sep 29, and the last session will be December 8. Register to attend . We will not meet on Sunday Oct 13, Sunday November 10, or Sunday December 1. You only need to register once, and you’ll receive an email with more information and the zoom link ahead of the writing group. Participants don’t have to attend every writing group nor stay the whole time. These writing groups are meant to work around your schedule, so come and go as you’re able. Graduate Student Writing Retreats We host writing retreats to help graduate students commit to regular writing and build community with fellow students. Check back for information about our summer 2025 writing retreats. Writing Center Main location: Campus Center, First Floor, Room 1300 Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.6753 writingcenter@umb.edu Connect Find us on Twitter Find us on Instagram UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms