Laura.Bozeman - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Laura.Bozeman Laura Bozeman Department: GISD - Dean's Office Title: Department Chair Location: Bayside Floor 04 Phone: 617.287.4300 Send Email Areas of Expertise Personnel Preparation; Orientation and Mobility; Self-Defense; Collaborative Partnerships; Low-Incidence Disabilities; Visual Impairment Degrees PhD, University of Texas at Austin, College of Education (Vision Impairment and Multiple Disabilities) Additional Information Laura Bozeman has a dual appointment in the School for Global Inclusion and Social Development (SGISD) and the College of Education and Human Development . Bozeman entered the vision profession in 1974 as an Orientation & Mobility Specialist in Texas. Her research focuses on quality personnel preparation of highly qualified teachers within the low-incidence area of vision impairment. Bozeman promotes a regional model to sustain that preparation at the university level, both nationally and internationally. She has worked with all ages and has taught in the U.S. (mainland, Guam, American Samoa), and internationally in Taiwan, China, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, Saipan, the Federated States of Micronesia, and American Samoa. In 2006, Bozeman moved to New England from New Zealand. She is now Professor and Graduate Program Director of the Vision Studies Program at UMass Boston, which is closely affiliated with the Northeast Resource Center for Vision Education (NERCVE). Bozeman teaches classes as well as directing the program. She also collaborates closely with NERCVE's Program Manager, Callie Brusegaard , and Alexandra Futty to ensure the Vision Studies Program's networking and community outreach. SGISD's Vision Studies Program is the only academic and professional training program in New England to prepare professionals who are uniquely qualified in visual impairment. It is affiliated with the Institute for Community Inclusion , the primary research and training institute of SGISD. The Vision Studies program now offers four nationally recognized and professionally accredited graduate specializations in Vision Studies: Orientation and Mobility, Vision Rehabilitation Therapy, Assistive Technology for People with Visual Impairment, state-licensed Teacher of Students with Visual Impairment, as well as a graduate certificate in Cortical/Cerebral Visual Impairment. Bozeman is the main contact for students applying to all four tracks. Bozeman is the author of more than 30 books, chapters, and articles on the subject of vision impairment. She has provided extensive training and presented at numerous workshops and conferences, both in the US and internationally. She has served on the executive board of many international associations and committees, and is involved at many levels of the professional organization in vision impairment, the Association for the Education and Rehabilitation of the Blind and Visually Impaired . Learn more about Laura Bozeman's vision studies work . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms