Exercise & Health Sciences - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Exercise & Health Sciences Home The Manning College Departments & Centers Exercise & Health Sciences Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Nursing Exercise & Health Sciences Faculty Research & Impact Facilities Student Resources Gerontology Urban Public Health Center for Clinical Education & Research Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Welcome to the Exercise & Health Sciences Department The Exercise and Health Sciences (EHS) Department offers undergraduate (BS) and graduate programs (MS and PhD) in Exercise and Health Sciences Request Info Apply About Our Department The Exercise & Health Science (EHS) Department is an integral part of the Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences (MCNHS). We offer undergraduate (BS) and graduate (MS and PhD) programs, all in Exercise and Health Sciences. The BS program is one of the largest undergraduate majors on campus and has a current enrollment of approximately 500 students. The BS curriculum provides a solid foundation based on the principles of exercise science while offering the flexibility for students to prepare for careers through the following four pathways: Pre-Health, Exercise Physiology, Physical Activity and Health Promotion, and Fitness and Strength & Conditioning. For talented BS students, we also encourage consideration of our graduate programs. Our graduate programs have a current enrollment of approximately 30 students. The MS program provides two concentrations – Applied Exercise Physiology and Physical Activity and Health Promotion, and two options – Thesis and Practicum. The program prepares students to pursue careers in research or to become practitioners and leaders in the field. Our PhD program is built upon our MS curriculum, and doctoral students have the opportunity to work closely with faculty on supervised research and dissertation projects. Many of our doctoral students have obtained highly regarded research and teaching positions after graduation. The EHS faculty are excellent educators, mentors, and scholars. Students benefit from EHS faculty through classroom teaching, experiential learning, and research projects. Our faculty’s research broadly addresses one of the leading challenges of our time – the quest for health equity. The two main foci for faculty research are applied exercise science with an overarching theme of understanding physiological mechanisms in vulnerable populations such as racial and ethnic minority groups and the promotion of physical activity in at-risk populations such as children and older adults. Undergraduate Programs BS in Exercise & Health Sciences Graduate Programs MS in Exercise & Health Sciences PhD in Exercise & Health Sciences Mission, Values, Goals Our Mission To engage in scientific discovery and dissemination of knowledge for the advancement and promotion of physical activity and healthy lifestyles in individuals and communities. Our Vision To be nationally recognized for excellence in advancing health equity, promoting physical activity, and preparing students through innovative research, teaching, and community engagement. Our Values Physical Activity for All Inclusive Excellence Professionalism Teamwork Community Impact Our Goals Improve student learning and success in the undergraduate Exercise and Health Sciences program Increase enrollment and enhance student learning and success in the Exercise and Health Sciences graduate programs Maintain or increase research funding, publications and presentations by faculty and students Grow contributions and visibility locally, nationally, and internationally through professional engagement and service Research & Impact Student Resources The University of Massachusetts Boston Exercise and Health Sciences Department is a member of the American Kinesiology Association. The Bachelor in Exercise and Health Sciences Program is accredited through the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP). Resources Faculty Research & Impact Facilities Student Resources Accelerated Master’s Programs (AMP) Earn a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in as little as five years. Explore Accelerated Master's Programs Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Contact Us Department of Exercise & Health Sciences 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone: 617.287.7500 Fax: 617.
287.7527 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms