Mathematics - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Mathematics Home Science & Mathematics Academic Departments Mathematics Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Biochemistry Computer Science Biology Engineering Chemistry Mathematics Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Math Tutoring & Advising Physics Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs Research Student Success Center Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Want to get notified when new sections of courses open up for the next semester? Join our mailing list . (Note: You may only subscribe to notifications for up to 2 courses per semester. UMB account required.) Welcome to the Department Of Mathematics UMass Boston's Department of Mathematics in the College of Science offers top programs for mathematics majors, quality courses to science majors and those in need of math skills, educates students with diverse interests beyond the strict confines of mathematics, and engages in cutting-edge mathematical research. Request Info Apply Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Mathematics BA Mathematics BS Mathematics Minor Graduate Programs Computational Sciences PhD Integrative Biosciences PhD About Our Department The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to excellence in mathematical education, research, and outreach. Our department offers a wide array of programs for mathematics majors, providing students with a solid foundation in mathematical principles and applications. We also take pride in delivering high-quality courses tailored to the needs of science majors and students seeking mathematical expertise in their academic and research endeavors. We believe in educating students with diverse interests beyond the traditional boundaries of mathematics, nurturing well-rounded individuals who can apply mathematical concepts to a variety of disciplines. Our dedicated faculty members are actively engaged in the forefront of mathematical research, exploring areas of interest and expertise that have far-reaching implications across various fields. Actuarial Science The Department of Mathematics offers an introductory curriculum in Actuarial Science, approved at the UCAP-IP level by the Society of Actuaries. The curriculum consists of the following courses: Math 309, Financial Mathematics (prepares students for Exam FM). Math 345, Probability and Statistics (prepares students for Exam P). Math 448 and its graduate version  Math 648, Computational Statistics (VEE in Mathematical Statistics). These courses are open to qualified students from all majors and programs, and also to qualified non-degree students; please click the links above for information on pre-requisite courses. Students currently majoring in Mathematics who wish to study Actuarial Science may do so from within their current program; all of the courses listed above may be counted towards the upper-level elective requirement in any concentration. For additional information, please email ActuarialScience@umb.edu. Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Resources Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Math Tutoring Contact Department of Mathematics Wheatley Building, 3rd Floor, Suite 154 math@umb.edu 617.287.6460 https://www.linkedin.com/in/umb-mathematics/ Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms