Diversity Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Diversity Resources Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Campus Ministry Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Diversity Resources Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Diversity Resources and Reports Holidays and Observances DACA/Undocumented Internal Resources Admission For DACA and Undocumented The University of Massachusetts Boston is the most diverse university in New England and offers a welcoming college community. We encourage Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and undocumented students to apply for admission to the university. Merit Scholarships First year Undocumented and DACA students are automatically considered for merit scholarship aid at the time of admission. Please review our scholarship aid for incoming first year students. Undocumented and DACA students are also encouraged to apply for continuing students’ merit-based scholarships at the University of Massachusetts Boston to help finance their education. In order to be matched and apply for scholarships students are encouraged to create a profile on Academic Works . Please review Scholarship criteria and apply through Academic Works at the start of each academic year for consideration for our many competitive continuing student scholarships. External Resources Student Immigrant Movement The Student Immigrant Movement is a MA-based statewide immigrant youth-led organization. They organize youth, ages 13-30, and provide political education, leadership training,  guidance, mentorship, and safe healing spaces. United We Dream United We Dream is the largest immigrant youth-led organization in the nation. The  nonpartisan network is made up of over 100,000 immigrant youth and allies and 55 affiliate organizations in 26 states. They organize and advocate for the dignity and fair treatment of immigrant youth and families, regardless of immigration status through federal legislation. The Mayor's Office for Immigrant Advancement The Mayor's Office for Immigrant Advancement provides public education to inform immigrants about City services, information, and referral to community services, as well as information in conducting outreach to immigrant groups. Complete list of services in Boston for immigrants The Greater Boston Legal Services The Greater Boston Legal Services provides free civil (non-criminal) legal assistance to low-income people in Boston and thirty-one additional cities and towns. The Irish Immigrant International Center The Irish Immigrant International Center's Immigrant  Legal Services program offers comprehensive, professional, and confidential services for non-citizens, regardless of their legal status or ability to pay. They offer assistance navigating complex U.S. immigration laws. Trans Resource Guide Who can I go to on campus for help? As the university’s sponsored LGBTQIA+ advocacy organization, the Queer Student Center can assist with trans-related issues. Specifically, the QSC provides a safe space for LGBTQIA+ students on campus, and is a great resource for peer support, advocacy, and help navigating the UMass Boston campus community. It is located on the 3rd floor of the Campus Center (3005), and can be reached at QSC@umb.edu . The Queer Student Center also works with various institutions within the campus community to support Trans* students. These include: the Counseling Center (mental health services/support), Student Affairs (student-on student harassment / conduct issues), and the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (Title IX compliance, campus accommodations). Does Umass Boston cover Trans* people in Its nondiscrimination policy? Yes. The policy reads: "The University of Massachusetts is committed to providing an environment that advances equal opportunity and is free from discrimination and harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, age, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, disability, military status or genetic information in employment, admission, and participation in academic programs, activities, and services, and the selection of vendors who provide services or products to the university. Accordingly, acts of discrimination or harassment shall not be tolerated. Any member of the university community found to have violated this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action." What can a student do if they are being repeatedly misgendered by a faculty/staff, despite having informed the person of the appropraite pronouns. Students are encouraged to have an educational conversation with the individual doing the misgendering or using incorrect pronouns but if a conversation has occurred and there is no change in behavior you should contact the Dean of Students Office. The student can also file a complaint using MAXIENT. This form is to be used for reporting information necessary to initiate an investigation of alleged discrimination, harassment, sexual or gender-harassment, sexual assault, or other sexual violence, stalking or retaliation pursuant to the Discrimination and Harassment Policy and/or the Student Code of Conduct. If you would like to speak to someone, please contact the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion by calling 617.287.4818. What is the Umass Boston policy on bathroom access for Trans and Gender-Nonconfirming people? While at present, the University of Massachusetts Boston does not have its own bathroom policy, it abides by and is under the jurisdiction of the City of Boston municipal code, section 12-9.7, which reads, in part: “… it shall be an unlawful and discriminatory practice to prevent or prohibit the use of restrooms, baths, showers, dressing rooms, or other private accommodations based on the gender identity publicly and exclusively expressed or asserted by the person seeking to use such restrooms, baths, showers, dressing rooms, or other private accommodations.” Where are the gender inclusive restrooms on campus? Here is a map and list of the single-stall restrooms that are also Gender-inclusive on campus: Campus Center: 050-2316 050-2317 050-3316 050-3317 050-4316 050-4317 Wheatley Hall: 010-03/000111 010-02/00035 010-01/00026A Healey Library: 090-UL/000023 090-UL/000024 University Hall: 030-T104 030-T304 030-T403 030-T404 030-T105 030-T203 030-T204 030-T303 Integrated Sciences Complex: 060-2202F Residential Hall Building East: 156 153 How does Residential Life make housing assignments for Trans students? We allow students to self-select their gender and the gender they would like to live with. So that people may live with others they identify as. We also allow for gender inclusive housing meaning students of varying genders can live in the same space if they desire. All of our restrooms are gender inclusive as well with individually locking units including a shower and a toilet. If you would like to speak to someone, please contact Housing and Residential Life by calling 617.287.6011 or by emailing housing@umb.edu . Can Trans students participate in intramural (non-NCAA) sports? Working with the Queer Student Center, Intramural Athletics adopted the following policy : When an activity makes gender designation, individuals may participate in the activity based on their gender identity. If an individual's gender identity does not fit within the binary framework of man/woman or the person is in the process of transitioning to a different gender, participation in a particular gender designated activity will be handled on a case by case basis." Gendered and non-binary pronouns: guidelines for usage. It is important to ask for pronouns because you cannot assume how someone identifies their gender based on their appearance. Using the wrong pronouns for someone may lead them to feel disrespected, invalidated, and marginalized. FACT SHEET Names What are the defination of names at Umass Boston ? Primary Name/Legal Name on Record – A primary/legal name is the name that appears on legal documents, an individual’s passport, driver’s license, birth certificate, or U.S. Social Security Card. It will be used by the university for financial aid purposes, bursar’s bills, transcripts and diplomas. This name should be used when completing forms for the university. Chosen Name – A chosen name is a name an individual wishes to be known by, or identifies by, in the University community that is different from the individual’s official/legal name. Your chosen name may be used in place of your primary name on your BeaconCard, and your university email (by request); as well as on class/grade rosters, and Blackboard. To add/edit a chosen name in WISER navigate to Personal Information->Names->Add a new name Degree/Diploma Name: The name printed on the diploma will be your primary/legal name as listed in WISER. Any changes to your primary/legal name must be made before the applied date of graduation. To update your legal name, submit the request by completing the name/address change form along with the supporting documents. Get more information about names How can students and employees legally change their name? You can get the form at the probate court, or you can download a copy of the form. For more information on name changes for adults in Massachusetts see here . How can students/employee change their legal name on campus? Students: Submit the address/name change form with supporting documentation. Please note: If you work on campus you will need to follow the rules below for staff in addition to making the changes in Wiser. Faculty/Staff: contact Human Resources to request your name be changed in HR Direct. If you’d like your email to match your name change, after it’s been updated with HR, contact the IT Service Desk and request that your email address and display name be changed to match your HR record. For faculty who are known professionally under a different name, contact the IT Service Desk and request your name be changed based on your professional identity. Pending approval from HR, the systems group will make the change. How can students add a chosen name to their WISER account? To add/edit a chosen name in WISER navigate to Personal Information->Names->Add a new name. Use the Name Type drop down menu to select “Chosen” first and last name fields are required. Where will my chosen name be displayed? Student dashboard in WISER (any person that has access to your account will see chosen name.) Blackboard Grade & Class Rosters Library Records Housing Email – upon student request see question above Beacon Card- upon student request see question above What name will be on my diploma? The name printed on the diploma will be your primary/legal name as listed in WISER. After you have applied for graduation, you can view how your name is listed and will be printed on your diploma: In WISER: Click on My Academics -> Graduation -> View my graduation status. How can a student change the name in their UMass email address? A student can change their UMass Boston email address by making a request at the IT Service Desk located on the 3rd floor of the Healey Library. They may also call 617.287.5220 or email ITServiceDesk@umb.edu . We advise students to change their “chosen name” in WISER in the manner detailed above before making a request to change their email. How can students and employees have a chosen name rather than their primary name on their BeaconCard (UMass Boston ID Card)? The Student and/or Employee will need to request this change with the BeaconCard Office. We advise students to change their “chosen name” in WISER before making a request to change their email. The BeaconCard office is the Quinn Administration Building, on the second floor. Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Plans WHAT IS AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM? An affirmative action program is a management tool designed to ensure equal opportunity in recruiting, hiring, training, promoting, and compensating individuals.  An effective affirmative action program is a diagnostic tool that evaluates the composition of the workforce and compares it with the composition of the relevant labor pool and develops practical steps to address underutilization of specific groups. An affirmative action program is, more than a paperwork exercise. An effective affirmative action program includes policies, practices, and procedures that an employer implements to ensure that all qualified applicants and employees are receiving an equal opportunity for recruitment, selection, advancement, and every other term and privilege associated with employment. Affirmative action, ideally, is a part of the way an employer regularly conducts its business UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS STATEMENT OF AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY The University of Massachusetts is committed to a policy of equal opportunity without regard to race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, age, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, disability, military status, or genetic information in employment, admission to and participation in academic programs, activities, and services, and the selection of vendors who provide services or products to the University. To fulfill that policy, the University of Massachusetts is further committed to a program of affirmative action to eliminate or mitigate artificial barriers and to increase opportunities for the recruitment and advancement of qualified minorities, women, persons with disabilities, and covered veterans. It is the policy of the University of Massachusetts to comply with the applicable federal and state statutes, rules, and regulations concerning equal opportunity and affirmative action. To view the Affirmative Action for the year 2014-2015, Click here Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Got a Question? Contact Us 100 Morrissey Boulevard, Quinn 3/022Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone: 617.287.4827 Fax: 617.265.4833 diversity@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms