Scan - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Security Scan Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Antivirus Encryption External Sender Guidelines Junkmail Laptop Theft MFA Passwords Phishing PII Scan SecureIT Server Social Media SSL Standards Research & Innovation About Information Technology Scan Your Computer Antivirus is a reactive software. If it sees a threat on your computer, it reacts to that threat to block and remove it. The Scan Your Computer service is a proactive tool. It looks for potential security problems that an attacker could use in the future, and lets you know how to fix them. SCAN YOUR COMPUTER In an agreement that the University of Massachusetts Boston has with the Qualys Corporation, a leader in PC scanning software, the university can scan your PC for out-of-date software and system patches. This browser check works on both Macintosh and Windows machines and will scan your PC for updates any installed software you have. Safe Computing Tips Following are a few important tips for keeping your use of computers safe and productive. Back up your data and keep important files backed up daily. Done properly, this can help protect you from computer crashes, malware such as ransomware, and other disasters. Frequently scan your browser and PC for updates using the link above. Your password is as sensitive as your credit card! Don't enter it on unknown sites without checking them out. Only use your UMass Boston password on University related sites like webmail, Wiser, and Blackboard. Use strong passwords on all your accounts. Don't reuse passwords (use different passwords on different sites) and don't tell anyone your password! Think before you click! Don't click on links without checking them out first! Identity thieves will try to trick you into giving them your password and other sensitive information with fake emails and web sites. Learn to avoid phishing scams . Take the Department of Defense Phishing Awareness course and learn to protect yourself from identity theft. Password protect your computer and protect your password. Learn more about managing your UMass Boston password . Do not install more software than you need, and only after you have verified that it is safe. Think before you click! (Part 2) Clicking OK to a software installation and entering your password gives the software/web site access to your computer. Once you enter your password, the software can do anything to your computer that you can do. Make sure to read and understand Tip #7. Turn on your computer's firewall and set your computer to automatically update itself. Install anti-virus/anti-spyware software and keep it up to date. - Employees using PCs on the UMass Boston network must have KACE, Sophos, and EPO installed. Contact the IT Service Desk if you need this software installed. - Everyone else (including employees wishing to protect home PCs) should install one of several good free anti-virus programs . For more, see our Safe Computing handout. Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms