For Student Organizations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Event Services For Student Organizations Menu menu Menu Our Office Our Event Venues Our Services For External Clients & Conferences For Departments For Student Organizations Huddle Work Spaces Reservation & Space Use Policies Reserving Space All Current Students Reserve your own Huddle Tables and Work Stations on the third floor of the Campus Center. Same-day reservations available! BOOK HUDDLE/WORK SPACE Recognized Student Organizations RSOs are given the opportunity to reserve space on campus for their organization meetings and events during the fall and spring semesters. OPEN 25LIVE Planning Events and Reserving Space Student Event Planners Each student organization can designate two "Event Planners" who will work with the Event Services office to schedule and plan events using 25Live - our campus reservation system. Access to 25Live is updated on a biweekly basis during the first five weeks of the semester. Students should not expect to have immediate access once activated. Event Date Use the Campus Event Spaces list and 25Live to find an available date and time in a location that is suitable for your meeting or event. Submit a 25Live Creating an Event Request at least SEVEN DAYS before the selected date. Dances and large events should be requested at least ONE MONTH in advance. You should get a reservation status update from us within THREE TO FIVE DAYS sent to your university email address. Review the confirmed reservation details carefully and double check the space reserved for you. Promo and Post You must have a confirmed reservation from Event Services before you post any advertisements that include a date or location. Read the Posting Policy (updated spring 2023). Your event will automatically appear on the Event Calendar but you should also add it to your organization event page on UMBeInvolved . Using Classrooms and Auditoriums If you were assigned to a classroom or an auditorium, read the Classroom Reservation Guide . Check out what's already in the room: classroom technology page . Contact the AV Services office to request support or equipment at least one week before your event! AV offices are located in each academic building and the office hours are posted online: AV office locations, hours, and contact. Food If you want to serve food, you are required to place an order with the on-campus catering office first. Start with Square Tomato - an easy-to-use catering program with perfectly sized menu items by the dollar, platters, party packages and hot meals by the pan. A no frills catering menu with affordable pricing for students! If our campus caterer cannot fulfill your request, you will be directed to a select list of approved caterers off-campus. You also have the option of providing non-catered food for small gatherings. Learn more about your dining options . Details Do you need a microphone, a laptop, easels? We have it all, but you need to reserve them in 25Live and confirm with the Event Services office in advance! The majority of our meeting and event spaces have built-in AV systems, but you should still let us know if you are planning to use them. Confirm Pre-event planning appointments with the Event Services office are mandatory if you are hosting a large event on campus, but we're happy to chat about small events too! Contact the Event Services office to find a time to meet with the Event Coordinator at least two weeks before your event: 617.287.4812 or event.services@umb.edu . If you have a question, please do not wait until the day of your event, ask us now! Event Day On the day of your meeting or event, our Student Building and Event Managers are onsite to assist you. You can reach them at 617.201.6691. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms