Exam Security And Proctoring - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Tools Exam Security And Proctoring Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Echo360 Exam Security And Proctoring Google Workspace Gradescope Iclicker Linkedinlearning Pronto Respondus Turnitin Voicethread Web Conferencing Wordpress Respondus Browser and Monitor We are currently offering Respondus LockDown Browser and Respondus Monitor for added security when offering online exams. These two products work together to ensure that students are not viewing anything online during an exam, and that their behavior during an exam doesn't put in question their academic integrity. Book a Consult Respondus LockDown Browser LockDown Browser is a custom browser your students download and use that locks down the testing environment while a student takes an exam in Blackboard. During the exam the students are unable to copy or print the exam for other students, access other applications or visit other websites. Respondus Monitor Respondus Monitor builds on the power of LockDown Browser by using a student’s webcam to record video and audio of them while taking the exam. Using industry-leading video analytics, Monitor will flag any behaviors that may represent instances of cheating. Instructors can then view the recording and decide for themselves. Resources If you decide to use Respondus LockDown Browser and/or Respondus Monitor, it is important to communicate this to your students. We highly recommend you set up a practice exam for students to get accustomed to the browser and work out any technical issues before the actual exam. Visit the resource pages below for information to use in your course Syllabus and other resources. Respondus LockDown Browser resource page Respondus Monitor resource page Instructor QuickStart Guide Respondus LockDown Browser Extension for Chromebook Respondus LockDown Browser is now available for use on Chromebooks through a Chrome browser extension. Instructors no longer need to check a box to allow students to use a Chromebook for the test. Students will be prompted to download the extension through the download link (specific to our institution) that you provide in the course. Please note that students will not be able to find the browser extension from the Chrome web store. The LockDown Browser installation link will direct students to the Chrome web store, at which point they should select “Add to Chrome” to install the LockDown Browser Extension. Authentic Assessment We encourage you to keep in mind the many other ways of assessing your students' learning, such as reflection papers, presentations, or group projects. Frequent and varied forms of assessment give your learners the opportunity to apply the information they've learned and increase the chance of retaining that information. Setting Up Respondus Exams To use Respondus LockDown Browser or Respondus Monitor first you will need to create a test using the Tests tool in Blackboard and deploy the test in a content area in Blackboard. Then you will be able to associate the test with the Respondus LDBM add-on in Blackboard. You will also need to provide the link to download the browser to your students. Associate Test with Respondus in Blackboard Deploy the test in a content area of your Blackboard course. After deploying the test, associate it with Respondus LockDown Browser following the instructions below: From the Control Panel in Blackboard, locate the Course Tools section and select the link “Respondus LockDown Browser”. Click “Continue to LockDown Browser” -- this option appears just under the Respondus instructional video (optionally, check the box for  “Do not show me again” under the video) On the next screen, click the down arrow to the left of the test and select “Settings”. Select the option "Require Respondus LockDown Browser for this exam". Indicate any advanced desired settings for both LockDown Browser and Respondus Monitor. Click Save + Close. For further help with getting started with LockDown Browser and Monitor faculty should contact Learning Design Services: learningdesign@umb.edu Resources to Provide to Students Before an Exam Provide the following resources to students ahead of the exam time (see Resources above for tips and boilerplate text you can use): Download LockDown Browser Student QuickStart Guide for LDBM How do I install LockDown Browser? Student Support Troubleshooting Student Issues During an Exam Students experiencing problems with access to exams should be instructed to do the following: Run a system and network check from the Help Center in LockDown Browser and retain the 9-10 digit System Check ID Submit a ticket directly with Respondus Support and include the 9-10 digit System Check ID (not the entire report) Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms