Resources for Students - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Economics Resources for Students Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Resources for Students Teaching Goals English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Resources for Students Tutoring The department encourages students to make use of its tutoring program. The program provides free individual or group tutoring throughout the semester for students who are enrolled in Econ 101, Econ 102, Econ 201, Econ 202, or Econ 205. The tutors are undergraduate majors who have generally excelled in the specific course in which they are tutoring. If you are interested in receiving help from a tutor, contact Academic Support Services . If you encounter any difficulties in arranging for tutoring, please don't give up; instead, contact either your instructor or the coordinator of the department's tutoring program. If you are interested in becoming a tutor, you should contact the department's Tutor Coordinator . Prospective tutors should have a strong background in economics and have successfully completed the course in which they wish to tutor. Tutors receive an hourly wage and generally find tutoring to be an excellent learning experience.  Qualified international students are eligible to receive payment as tutors. Computer Lab The economics department has a small computer lab available (with access to the internet) for economics majors. The lab is not staffed, but is open whenever the economics office is staffed Student Course Evaluations Student evaluations of all economics courses are carried out during the last two weeks of each term. Student opinions are helpful to the individual faculty member and the department as a whole. The results of the evaluations serve two purposes: first, they provide valuable feedback to instructors who wish to improve their teaching performance; and second, they provide an important input into the department's process of personnel reviews -- that is, decisions concerning reappointments, merit awards, tenure, and promotion. Student Groups & Activities The Economics Society The Economics Society is a club made up of economics majors and other students interested in economics. The Society carries out a variety of activities -- intellectual, career-oriented, and social. The Society's activities can provide students with an opportunity to meet one another, as well as to interact with faculty members outside of the classroom.  The Society is more active in some years than in others due to students’ busy schedules.  An active society requires at least a few economics students dedicated to starting things off early in the semester.  If you are interested in pursuing this opportunity, please contact the Faculty Advisor to the Economics Society. Honors Dinner Each spring the department invites all junior and senior majors with strong academic records to a dinner to celebrate their achievements. This is a popular event for both students and faculty. Careers A major in economics from the University of Massachusetts Boston opens doors to diverse career opportunities. Graduates find themselves in various roles, such as: Reporter at Bloomberg News, covering a wide range of captivating issues. Executive Director of the Artists Foundation, blending economics and art to advocate for artists' public policy concerns. Senior International Credit Analyst at Phelps Dodge Corporation, a major mining company in Phoenix, Arizona. Senior Planner in the Office of Strategic Planning and Community Development for the City of Somerville. Director of Human Resources at the University after attending law school and working for the Massachusetts Labor Commission. Faculty member at Simmons College with a focus on Women’s Studies and Africana Studies, holding a Ph.D. after completing graduate programs. Massachusetts House of Representatives member. Researcher at the Boston Redevelopment Authority (BRA), engaged in various projects. Coordinator of Mathematics for grades K through 8 in Newton, Massachusetts. Lawyer on staff at the U.S. Department of Education. Paralegal at a Boston law firm, with plans to attend law school in the future. The skills acquired through our economics program empower our graduates to succeed in a wide array of fields and professions. Scholarships and Awards Honors for Graduating Seniors There are five categories of student awards that UMass Boston presents to economics majors who graduate with outstanding records. These are the Leonard J. Kirsch Memorial Prize, the Joann P. Stewart Prize, the Alice E. Trost Memorial Prize, Senior Honors, and Distinction in Economics. The National Economics Honors Society The UMass Boston chapter of the national Economics Honors Society (Omicron Delta Epsilon) is open to students who have completed 12 or more credits in economics and have earned a 3.0 grade point average both overall and in their economics courses. The fee required for joining the Honors Society, all of which is submitted to its national headquarters, covers the cost of a certificate and a subscription to its journal. Many students find that membership in the Economics Honors Society provides an impressive addition to their resumes when it comes time to look for employment. If you are interested in signing up, you should contact the faculty advisor. The Leonard J. Kirsch Memorial Prize Each year the department chooses an outstanding economics graduate to receive the Kirsch Memorial prize, established in memory of a former faculty member. A significant factor in awarding the prize is a graduate's grade point average in economics courses. The Alice E. Trost Memorial Prize Each year the department chooses an outstanding economics graduate to receive the Trost Memorial prize, established in memory of a former faculty member. A significant factor in awarding the prize is a graduate's grade point average in economics courses. The Joann P. Stewart Prize Most years the department will choose an outstanding economics graduate to receive this prize, established in honor of the first woman to retire from the department (and one who was always particularly interested in the progress of women in the field of economics). The Joanne Spitz Scholarship A former student of Professor Joanne Spitz (who is currently teaching in the Department) donated the funding to create the scholarship in 2015. The scholarship is awarded to an economics major who is at junior level at the University of Massachusetts Boston. To be eligible for the scholarship applicants must have earned 60-89 credits and must have demonstrated excellence in economics at UMass Boston. The Department gave out the first award of the scholarship in Spring 2016. Senior Honors In order to graduate with Senior Honors, a student must successfully complete the Senior Honors Thesis Program. Distinction in Economics Economics majors may graduate with Distinction in Economics if they have outstanding cumulative grade point averages both overall and in their economics courses. The precise criteria may change from year to year; in recent years, the requirement has typically been to have earned a grade point average of at least 3.60 in economics courses and an overall cumulative grade point average of at least 3.50. Joann P. Stewart Scholarship Award Each spring the Economics Department awards one scholarship (of about $500) to an outstanding economics major completing his or her junior year. The scholarship is named after Joann P. Stewart, former Professor of Economics at UMass Boston, as a tribute to her commitment to the University and her interest in labor relations. For more information, see our website or the Stewart Award application. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms