ADA & Accommodations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Civil Rights & Title IX ADA & Accommodations Menu menu Menu ADA & Accommodations Accessibility Resources Accommodations Event Accommodations Temporary Accessible Parking Sexual Respect & Title IX Civil Rights Resolution Process Policies & Forms Laws & Regulations File a Complaint Get Support & Resources Contact Us ADA & Accommodations ADA/Section 504 Compliance UMass Boston is committed to equal and integrated inclusion of individuals with disabilities and is continually improving the accessibility of our campus, programs, and activities. The University's ADA/504 Coordinator is Andrea Haas , Accommodations Administrator. For employees: The Office of Human Resources is a referral point for: seeking reasonable workplace accommodations; information, services and resources regarding ADA and Section 504; consultation on policy reviews and facilities planning; workshops and trainings on disability-related topics; implementation of reasonable requested accommodation. For more information, or to request a workplace accommodation, please view the accommodations page or email Susan.Damato@umb.edu . Employees requesting accommodations based on religious or spiritual beliefs should contact the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX at civilrights.titleix@umb.edu For students: The Ross Center for Disability Services is a resource for the campus community to ensure academic and housing access and inclusion. The Ross Center provides: academic accommodations resources training in assistive technology information to increase the understanding of disability throughout the university community Get Information about the Ross Center and academic accommodations For pregnancy or related conditions, accommodations are available through the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX. Please email civilrights.titleix@umb.edu , or call (617) 287-4818. IT Accessibility UMass Boston is committed to a barrier-free electronic information and technology (EIT) environment. Through trainings and consultation, the IT Accessibility Team provides resources for creating accessible content. This includes website content, PDF documents, email communications, Microsoft Office documents, etc. Visit the website for Learning Design Services for more information. Facilities Accessibility We are committed to removing barriers that prohibit access to buildings and programs. Get updates on campus construction and rehabilitation projects here . Grievance Procedure Students, employees or other community members who believe they have been discriminated against on the basis of their disability may file a complaint with Director of Civil Rights and Title IX. Complaints should be submitted via email to Anne Valerie Imparato , or via the online complaint form . Individuals who are unable to file a complaint by these methods or require assistance may call (617) 287-5148 . Complaints will be adjudicated pursuant to the Non-Discrimination and Harassment Policy and the Faculty/Staff Internal Complaint Procedure . Office of Civil Rights & Title IX Quinn Administration Building, 3rd Floor phone: 617.287.7391 email: Civilrights.titleix@umb.edu File a Complaint Get Support & Resources Contact Us UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms