- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2022 Track and Field Icon Edwin Moses Speaks at Black H Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Track and Field Icon Edwin Moses Speaks at Black History Month Event 03/22/2022 |
    Danielle Bilotta The Black Faculty, Staff, and Student Association (BFSSA) hosted “A History of Black Activism in Boston Sports” webinar last month, as part of the campus’s Black History Month activities. Dr. Edwin Moses The event featured two-time Olympic gold medalist and track and field icon Dr. Edwin Moses , H’09 and J. Keith Motley Endowed Chair of Sport Leadership and Administration Joseph N. Cooper , who presented the rich history of resistance and activism in and through sport in Boston. Moses and Cooper also tackled commercialization and politics in sports alongside the rise of performance enhancing drugs at the Olympics. The presentation highlighted the work of Boston bicycle racer Kittie Knox who became the first Black athlete to be accepted into the League of American Wheelman, and Mabray “Doc” Kountze, a sportswriter and Black historian who was the first Black journalist to be issued a press pass by the Boston Red Sox. Cooper shared how these historic moments were a part of progressive racial change in Boston, breaking barriers, shifting attitudes, and providing a blueprint for future sports activists seeking to improve the plights of Black communities locally and internationally. Moses then shared his personal story as a former track and field athlete who won gold medals for the 400 m event at the 1976 and 1984 Olympics. In 1981, he was invited to join the International Olympic Committee (IOC) by former IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch, and was involved in the growth of track and field as a commercial sport. Moses was also one of the first athletes to be commercially viable at the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles, California. Moses spoke of the desire to keep sports and politics separate at the time, which Moses now describes as “naive.” “The businesspeople that run the sports are completely political because of the nature of commercialization,” he said. “There are major deals done between people at the high levels of sports making major commercial deals, representing companies or private organizations, and international sovereign countries. It's sometimes very difficult to untie.” Because of his experience behind the scenes of the Olympics, Moses rejects the idea that athletes are the only ones injecting politics into sports and instead notes that the entire event is business driven. “I would agree with Dr. Moses that sport is inherently political so whenever athletes or individuals connected to sport use it as a platform to champion causes that are important to them, I think it’s perfectly within their purview as long as it’s done in a respectful manner, such as a peaceful protest,” Cooper said. “Often times people don’t question if there are militaristic associations with certain sports. Even with playing the national anthems before certain games, people often times don’t view that as a political statement but it actually is.” “An educator and mentor of mine always uses this phrase and I believe it to be true, ‘everything in society is economically and politically motivated with socio-cultural implications,’” Cooper said. “We have to start thinking critically about the messages that our institutions and our organizations are communicating, and which communities are benefiting from the current status quo.” The BFSSA also hosted a Black History Month Film Discussion on Passing; Summer of Soul; and Judas and the Black Messiah , and a Celebration of Black Entrepreneurship, which encouraged the UMass Boston community to patronize as many Black-owned businesses in greater Boston as possible and discuss their experiences supporting Black entrepreneurs. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms