International Graduate Applicants - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions Graduate Students Apply as a Graduate Student International Graduate Applicants Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Apply as a Graduate Student Accelerated Master’s Programs International Graduate Applicants Program Requirements & Contacts Estimate Your Program Costs Graduate Students & Assistantships Faculty Resources International Students Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented International Graduate Applicants International Application Requirements UMass Boston welcomes applications from prospective students around the globe. Our students come from 136 different countries. In addition to UMass Boston’s general and program-specific graduate application requirements, please review these requirements specifically relevant to international applicants. Bachelor's Degree Equivalency International applicants must submit evidence that they have completed the equivalent of a regionally accredited, U.S. university-level bachelor’s degree program. Acceptable documents can include official copies of diplomas, certified final degree certificates, and notation on final transcript of degree and date awarded. Most international four-year degrees are recognized as being equivalent. Most international three-year degrees, including the Indian Bachelor of Arts, Sciences and Commerce degrees, are not considered to be equivalent. If we are unable to determine equivalence, we may require applicants to submit an external evaluation from the Center for Educational Documentation ( www.cedevaluations.com ). Credential evaluations from other agencies may not be accepted. Credential Evaluation Reports will not be accepted in place of official transcripts. Transcripts UMass Boston's Office of Graduate Admissions prefers receiving electronic transcripts from U.S. institutions via Parchment or National Student Clearinghouse (NSC). Please ensure that transcripts are directed to "UMass Graduate Admissions Only" via Parchment and "Graduate" via NSC. For international credentials, an official transcript can be sent electronically to gadocs@umb.edu directly from your institution. An official transcript is one sent to UMass Boston directly from the institution, either electronically or by mail. Original hardcopy transcripts must be sealed in an envelope from the issuing institution. We cannot accept scanned or emailed transcripts sent directly by the applicant or a third party. Transcripts should be sent from the institution directly. All materials submitted to the University become the property of the University and cannot be returned to the applicant or forwarded to any third party. If your transcript is in a language other than English, each page must be accompanied by an English translation, validated by an official public translator. If you need to submit other hardcopy materials or cannot send materials to a P.O. Box, you can send materials directly to our office (please allow for additional processing time): UMass Boston Graduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Please be advised that using this address will extend processing time. English Language Proficiency Applicants are required to demonstrate English language proficiency. Applicants that have not completed at least two academic years of full-time study (excluding ESL and test-prep) at an English-language institution in the U.S. or one of the countries listed below must submit official score results. We accept official scores for the following English language proficiency tests: Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) International English Language Testing System academic version (IELTS Academic) All applicants should arrange for their official IELTS score to be sent directly to University of Massachusetts Boston Graduate Admissions. Pearson Test of English (PTE Academic) Duolingo English Test Please be sure to filter by “graduate” programs when searching for University of Massachusetts Boston in order to ensure that you do not send your scores to our Undergraduate Admissions Office. Student Support: As a reminder, you can contact support by clicking the orange “Help” button on the bottom right of any screen. Additionally, you can email englishtest-support@duolingo.com or visit the FAQ . Australia Bahamas Barbados Belize Botswana Canada (except Quebec) Dominica Ghana Grand Cayman Grenada Guyana Hong Kong Ireland Jamaica Kenya Liberia Malawi Namibia New Zealand Nigeria Scotland Sierra Leone Singapore South Africa Swaziland Tanzania Trinidad/Tobago Uganda United Kingdom West Indies Zambia Zimbabwe Our institution code is 3924. We can only accept official score reports sent electronically or in hardcopy directly from the testing agency. Please review the minimum scores required for admission: UMass Boston requires the following minimum scores TOEFL PBT TOEFL IBT IELTS Academic PTE Academic DuoLingo College of Management 600 90 6.5 61 110 Applied Linguistics (MA) 600 90 6.5 61 110 Applied Linguistics (PhD) 600 100 7.0 68 120 Biology (all programs) 600 90 6.5 61 110 Early Childhood Education and Care (PhD) 600 100 7.0 68 120 English (MA) 600 90 6.5 61 110 History (MA) 600 90 6.5 61 110 Instructional Design 600 90 6.5 61 110 International Relations (MA) 600 90 6.5 61 110 Most Other Programs 550 79 6.0 53 105 Visa Information Once admitted, applicants will be contacted by the International Student & Scholar Office with information on the visa process. Please email international@umb.edu if you have questions or need assistance. International students admitted to any American university need an I-20 "Certificate of Eligibility," issued by the admitting institution, indicating that they have been accepted as full-time degree-seeking students, that they have the required proficiency in the English language, and that there is sufficient financial support for their education. Applicants must be prepared to pay their own expenses, and should also anticipate yearly increases in institutional costs (such as tuition and fees) and living expenses. For a complete listing of fees, refer to the Tuition and Fees page of the Bursar’s Office. Transportation to and from the U.S. is not included in this estimate. International students are required to pay non-resident tuition and fees. The UMass Boston International Student & Scholar Office will normally provide the international applicant with the I-20 form to enable him/her to apply for a visa with which to enter the United States. The University cannot issue the I-20 to part-time or online programs. Visa documents will not be issued until the applicant has been admitted and satisfied the International Student & Scholar Office requirements for issuance. The I-20 form is valid only for the semester for which it was issued. The Office of Graduate Studies and Admissions must be notified of an official decision to defer enrollment before a new I-20 form can be issued. If the applicant holds an I-20 from another U.S. institution, a Transfer Verification Form must be completed by the International Student Advisor at the institution the student is currently attending, or if not currently enrolled, the institution most recently attended. Please email international@umb.edu if you need assistance. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms