JohnA.Tyson - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory JohnA.Tyson John Tyson Department: Art Title: Assistant Professor Send Email Areas of Expertise Modern and Contemporary Art; American Art; particular interests include conceptual art, art and technology, African American artists, twentieth-century printmaking Degrees PhD, Art History, Emory University 2015 MA, Art History,Tufts University BA, Art, Colby College Professional Publications & Contributions “From Theory to Practice: Loïs Mailou Jones and James Porter’s American Modernisms.” In Beauty Born of Struggle: The African American Art World in Twentieth-Century Washington, DC. Edited by Jeffrey C. Stewart. New Haven and Washington: National Gallery of Art and Yale University Press, 2023. 98-123. “The Artist as ‘Weatherman’: Hans Haacke’s Critical Meteorology.” In Nervous Systems: Art, Systems, and Politics since the 1960s. Edited by Johanna Gosse and Tim Stott. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2022. “When Systems Get Personal: Puzzling Over Sol LeWitt’s Photobooks.” In Locating Sol LeWitt. Edited by David Areford. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2021. “Nineteen Notes for Elena del Rivero’s Nineteen Flags,” Rivers Institute for Contemporary Art & Thought (2020). “The Washington Renaissance.” In The Routledge Companion to African American Art History. Edited by Eddie Chambers. New York: Routledge (2019). “Beyond Systems Aesthetics: Politics, Performance, and Para-Sites.” In Hans Haacke: All Connected, exh. cat. curated by Massimiliano Gioni and Gary Carrion-Murayari. New York: Phaidon and New Museum of Contemporary Art, 2019. “Review of Joshua Rivkin, Chalk: The Art and Erasure of Cy Twombly .” The Art Newspaper 315 (September 2019): 13. "Politics of the Press: Newspapers and the Representation of Art by African Americans in the Nation’s Capital. American Art 33.2 (Summer 2019). “Programming and Reprogramming the Institution: Systems Politics in Hans Haacke’s Photoelectric Viewer-Programmed Coordinate System.” In Hybrid Practices: Art in Collaboration with Science and Technology. Edited by Steven Duval. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University California Press 2018. “Impressions, Inversions, and Decomposition: The Negative Aesthetics of Cy Twombly’s Printed Graphic Work,” Print Quarterly XXXV.1 (March, 2018). “Industrial Arts: Michelangelo Antonioni's Red Desert and Minimalism and Land Art,” “Pop Cinema: Jean-Luc Godard’s Pierrot le fou,” and “New Tactics: Vanguard Art and Far From Vietnam.” In New Waves: Transatlantic Bonds between Film and Art in the 1960s. National Gallery of Art, 2017. “The Work of Jayson Musson: Representing Play, Immaterial Labor, and Mediation.” International Review of African American Art (IRAAA) 26.2 (fall 2016). “The Context as Host: Hans Haacke’s Art of Textual Exhibition.” Word & Image: A Journal of Verbal/Visual Enquiry 31.3 (September 2015): 213-232. “From Theory to Practice: Loïs Mailou Jones and James Porter’s American Modernisms.” In Beauty Born of Struggle: The African American Art World in Twentieth-Century Washington, DC. Edited by Jeffrey C. Stewart. New Haven and Washington: National Gallery of Art and Yale University Press, 2023. 98-123. Additional Information John A. Tyson is a specialist in modern and contemporary art. Tyson’s recent scholarship has addressed art in the Cold War era, text and image interactions, multiples and print portfolios, parallels between vanguard art and cinema, and modernism in Washington, DC. His current book project on the work of Hans Haacke explores the relationship between the artist’s works and concurrently emerging forms of performance, technology and politics. Tyson serves as the President of the Society of Contemporary Art Historians (SCAH). Moreover, he is the organizer of the Visual Culture Consortium Symposium of 2021 and 2022, an annual event that provides undergraduates with a platform to develop their scholarship. From 2015 to 2017, Tyson held an Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Curatorial Fellowship at the National Gallery of Art, where he worked on projects with the departments of British and American Painting, Modern and American Prints and Drawings, and Film Programs. He continues to be interested in curating and has co-curated (with colleague Sam Toabe) From Theory to Practice: Artistic Legacies of the Whitney Independent Study Program (2019) as well as Equals 6: A Sum Effect of Frank Bowling's 5+1 (2022-23) at the University Hall Gallery. Professor Tyson’s other fellowships and awards include a a UMB College of Liberal Arts Careers/Curriculum Grant to support teaching oriented toward finding employment in the humanities (2020-21), a Henry Luce/ American Council of Learned Societies American Art Dissertation Fellowship (2014-2015), a Helena Rubinstein Fellowship in Critical Studies at the Whitney Museum of American Art’s Independent Study Program (2011-12), and a National Committee for the History of Art CIHA Travel Fellowship (2012). In 2008, he was a teaching fellow at Harvard University; additionally, he has taught classes for MFA students at George Washington University and the Pratt Institute. Courses Taught ART 250: Art of the Twentieth Century Art 310: Special Topics: History of Modern Prints ART 368: History of Photography ART 375: Contemporary Art: c. 1989-Present UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms