Food Insecurity Support - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Resources4U Food Insecurity Support Menu menu Menu Financial Resources Food Insecurity Support Home Heating Reources Mental Health And Staying Safe From Violence Other Support Prejudice Resources To Share With Family And Friends Tenants Rights And Protections Food Insecurity Support Food insecurity can affect anyone lacking available financial resources for food, as well as a lack of consistent access to enough food for an active, healthy life. Below you will find available resources to you for both short and long-term assistance. Some of these include resources for students, elders, families, pregnant women, and children. Help can be found in places such as community centers, schools, outdoor markets, food pantries, and religious affiliations such as churches. Due to Covid-19 some of these resources have altered their hours and availability to keep up with the demand. Check websites, email, or call if possible, for the most up to date information. What is food insecurity? According to the nonprofit, as of 2018, an estimated 1 in 9 Americans were food insecure, equating to over 37 million Americans, including more than 11 million children. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) defines food insecurity as a lack of consistent access to enough food for an active, healthy life. It is important to know that although hunger and food insecurity are closely related, they are distinct concepts. Hunger refers to a personal, physical sensation of discomfort, while food insecurity refers to a lack of available financial resources for food at the household level. Food insecurity can affect anyone lacking available financial resources for food, as well as a lack of consistent access to enough food for an active, healthy life. The COVID-19 public health crisis is having a profound impact on food insecurity in our communities. 2 out of every 5 UMass Boston students are food insecure. You are not alone. Food assistance in your local area UMass Boston U-ACCESS Food Pantry For a local pantry options, contact U-ACCESS staff at u-access@umb.edu or call 781-951-2724. Project Bread If you or someone you know living in Massachusetts needs food assistance, please refer them to Project Bread's FoodSource Hotline, toll-free and confidential. Call: Project Bread FoodSource Hotline at  (800) 645-8333; TTY: (800) 377-1292; Monday-Friday 8am - 7pm, Saturday 10am - 2pm. Local Food Pantries Search Food pantries provide free emergency groceries to individuals and families in their local communities. LovinSpoonful Food Bank of Western, MA Worcester County Food Bank Food for Free Interfaith Social Services Food Pantry The Greater Boston Food Bank Food delivery to your home Food for Free delivers fresh and non-perishable food to income-eligible individuals in Cambridge who are unable to access a food pantry due to qualifying reasons. Fresh Box is a community-based food delivery program developed in response to the COVID-19 crisis. Fresh Box is designed for social distancing, citywide reach across the Boston area. Boxes are being delivered to the doorsteps of households most severely impacted by the crisis. Solidarity Supply Distro supplies free groceries for all in need. They normally supply a week's worth of groceries to all individuals. They also deliver to homebound individuals and families and provide. Find them on Twitter . Daily Table and what they have to offer Daily Table is a nonprofit community set of grocery stores. They provide fresh, convenient, and nutritious food to communities most in need at prices everyone can afford. It is membership based; however, everyone is welcome to shop at Daily Table. To become a member simply go to one of two stores in both Roxbury and Dorchester and provide your zip code. Daily Table offers free cooking classes. For up to date information, hours, and locations, visit: dailytable.org/covid19 Contact: info@dailytable.org Dorchester location: 617-506-0219 Roxbury location: 617-516-8174 Cambridge location: Coming Soon Free meals for kids & teens Project Bread is working with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and many schools and community partners to provide families with access to school meals while schools are closed. Map of meal distribution sites P-EBT is for all Massachusetts students (K-12) who are enrolled in or eligible for free or reduced-price school meals or attend a school that offers universal free school breakfast and lunch will receive the P-EBT benefit at the end of May/early June. If you are a household that receives monthly SNAP benefits, you will receive your P-EBT benefits on your current EBT card. What is WIC (Woman, infant, and children)? WIC is for all kinds of families: married and single parents, working or not working. If you are a parent or legal guardian of a child under 5, you can apply for WIC for your child. You can participate in WIC if you: Live in Massachusetts Have a nutritional need (WIC staff can help you determine this) Have a child under 5, a new mom, or a pregnant or breastfeeding women. Have a family income less than WIC guidelines You are automatically income eligible for WIC if you currently receive: MassHealth/Medicaid insurance plans Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Transitional Aid to Families with Dependent Children (TAFDC) or cash assistance WIC Farmers Market Nutrition Program. You can check your eligibility for WIC . If you already receive WIC benefits, ask your nutritionist when and where they will be distributing Farmers Market coupons. Coupons are generally distributed in late July and early August. Visit for more information. Food for pets MSPCA-Angell animal hospital has compiled a list of Massachusetts food pantries to help families who need food for their pets. You can also ask any food pantry if they have food for your pet. For more information: MSPCA 617-524-5690 or email akrieger@mspca.org Farmers market, mobile market, Boston Public Market Whether you live in the city or suburbs, a Massachusetts farmers’ market is not too far from you. From spring until late fall, you can find local growers set up with their canopies and colourful displays of just-harvested fruits and vegetables in town squares, parks, and other public spaces. Updates every day at Mass Grown map , state-wide source to find your closest farm, farmers’ market, CSA farm, and more. This map includes information on farms that offer delivery and curbside pick-up. It is very important to check farm websites or contact them directly to see if their hours have changed. Mobile markets bring fresh produce and other foods to community sites across the state. Boston Public Market is an indoor, year-round marketplace for locally sourced groceries and specialty agricultural products. Visit: Pick your own fruit farms or Massachusetts-grown for locations and fruits that are in season. You can use your SNAP benefits to buy fruits and vegetables from HIP (Healthy Incentives Program) authorized: farm stands, mobile markets, and community supported agriculture (CSA) farm share programs. You will receive $1 for each dollar you spend on eligible fruits and vegetables, up to a monthly limit. You can earn HIP incentives at participating agricultural retailers. For more info visit: www.mass.gov/service-details/healthy-incentives-program-hip-for-clients Every summer, cities and towns hand out coupons to seniors and WIC families. Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program Coupons WIC Farmers Market Nutrition Program Coupons. To apply, visit: Women, Infants, & Children (WIC) Nutrition Program Accepting WIC and Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program Coupons at your Farmers Market or Farm stand Find out if you're eligible to receive or accept Farmers Market Nutrition Program Coupons at: Farmers Market Nutrition Program . You can also search for farmers markets and farm stands that accept Farmers Market Nutrition Program Coupons. For more detailed information on these markets visit: www.mass.gov/service-details/farmers-markets Pandemic EBT (P-EBT) and SNAP Pandemic EBT (P-EBT) and SNAP (Monthly cash benefits to pay for food) SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) is a federal nutrition program that provides eligible recipients with a monthly cash benefit to purchase groceries at grocery stores, convenience stores, and some farmers' markets and co-op food programs. A case manager will screen you for SNAP eligibility and assess your household circumstances during the interview. Emergency SNAP benefits are issued if the applicant appears eligible and answers “yes” to one or more of the following questions: Have lost your job or work hours because of COVID-19 Does your income and money in the bank add up to less than your monthly housing expenses? Is your monthly income less than $150 and is your money in the bank $100 or less? Are you a migrant worker and is your money in the bank less than $100? P-EBT, is for all Massachusetts students (K-12 grade) who are enrolled in or eligible for free or reduced-price school meals or attend a school that offers universal free school breakfast and lunch will receive the P-EBT benefit at the end of May/early June. If you are a household that receives monthly SNAP benefits, you will receive your P-EBT benefits on your current EBT card. For more information on P-EBT and to apply for SNAP benefits visit: SNAP Benefits DTA Assistance Line at (877) 382-2363 Talk to a case manager between 8:15am-4:45pm, M-F. Healthy Incentives Program ou can use your SNAP benefits to buy fruits and vegetables from HIP authorized: Farm stands Mobile markets Community supported agriculture (CSA) farm share programs You will receive $1 for each dollar you spend on eligible fruits and vegetables, up to a monthly limit. You can earn HIP incentives at participating agricultural retailers. SNAP/P-EBT can be used to buy food online at both Amazon, Walmart, and other grocery stores. What is Fresh Box and Fresh Connect? Fresh Box is a community-based food delivery program developed in response to the COVID-19 crisis. Fresh Box is designed for social distancing, citywide reach across the Boston area. Boxes are being delivered to the doorsteps of households most severely impacted by the crisis. Fresh Connect connects patients to the food they need to be healthy through mobile food trucks throughout Boston and the Greater Boston area. For a list locations and schedules visit: www.aboutfresh.org/fresh-truck/#schedule Talk to your doctor about enrollment: Patient Enrollment. Healthcare providers enroll patients in Fresh Connect when they screen positive for food insecurity or diet related disease. Using the Fresh Connect platform they administer a card with funds that a patient can use to shop for healthy food. Shopping. After receiving their Fresh Connect card the patient can use it to purchase healthy food from any Fresh Truck mobile market location. The card functions just like any payment method and is reloaded with funds for regular use. Recipes and Nutritional Education Hunger and Health Family Health & Nutrition Daily Table In addition to supplying groceries, Daily Table offers free cooking classes in their Teaching Kitchen for individuals in the community looking to provide healthy meals for themselves and their families. The classes are administered by a team of professionals, who teach nutrition education to participants. Due to COVID-19 some services may be on hold. PHONE Dorchester location: 617-506-0219 Roxbury location: 617-516-8174 Cambridge location: Opening in January 2021 How can I volunteer to help people with food insecurity? Here are some state, federal, community, and religious based organizations that you may be able to volunteer with. Many resource websites on this document have volunteer opportunities as well. Greater Boston Food Bank Boston Teachers Union Food for Free Anti-Hunger Non-Profit Senior Nutrition Programs Congregate Meals People age 60 or older and their spouses at any age. People with disabilities under age 60 who live in elder housing facilities where congregate meals are served. There is no income eligibility test required. Home Delivered Meals People age 60 or older. Meet home delivered meal eligibility requirements. Individuals with disabilities who live at home with their caregivers who are eligible seniors. There are senior nutrition agencies located throughout Massachusetts. To find the closest agency, call (800) 243-4636. www.mass.gov/service-details/senior-nutrition-program-eligibility-and-how-to-apply Brown bag: Provides a free bag of healthy groceries to eligible seniors once a month at local senior centers and community organizations. The food items are specifically selected to meet seniors’ special dietary requirements to help them stay healthy and active. Eligibility: The Brown Bag program is for people over the age of 55 who meet certain income guidelines . If you qualify for SSI, Medicaid, Fuel Assistance, Veteran’s Aid or have a documented disability for which you receive SSDI, you may qualify to receive Brown Bag monthly groceries. To learn more about our Brown Bag program. Contact: The Greater Boston Food Bank Phone: 617.427.5200 Email: programs@gbfb.org Monday – Friday, 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM Meals on Wheels (Home delivery for seniors) Home delivered meals for income eligible seniors in every state in America. To find your city or town visit: Meals on Wheels or Project Bread Call Project Bread FoodSource Hotline at (800) 645-8333 TTY: (800) 377-1292 Mon-Fri: 8am-7pm & Sat 10am-2pm City of Boston Food Resources for Older People: Dining Sites: Seniors and their spouses can share a meal with others at more than 40 locations across the City. The suggested donation for these meals is $2. Call 617-635-4366 for a list of sites. Home-Delivered Meals: This program delivers meals to people who cannot leave their homes because of illness, disability, or frailty, or who have significant difficulty preparing meals. Call 617-292-6211 to find out if you’re eligible. COVID-19 update: Their services remain open and available by phone. In-person meetings are by appointment only. Please call 617-635-4366 (Monday through Friday, 9am-5pm) or email agestrong@boston.gov. If you need help with food access, please visit COVID-19 food resources page . Senior Farmers Market Nutrition Program Coupons - Eligibility Every summer, cities and towns hand out coupons to seniors. To be eligible to receive Senior Farmers Market Coupons, you must be: 60 years of age or older, or Disabled and living in senior housing where congregate nutrition services are providing, and Your income must be lower than the Income Limits outlined below. For more information visit: Farmers-market-nutrition-program UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms