University Withdrawal - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Policies University Withdrawal Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Academic Standing Reenrollment Attendance Repeat Change Name Second Degree Previous Degree Course Reuse Sequencing Policies Credit Load University Withdrawal FERPA Grade Submission Graduate Student Statute Limitations Incomplete NA Grade Pass Fail Withdrawal Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu University Withdrawal Taking Planned or Unexpected Time Off, or Transferring from UMass Boston Many students take planned time away from UMB or need to stop taking classes unexpectedly, while others choose to transfer. Planning your time off and telling the University what you intend to do can make your exit as well as your entry back into school easier, avoid unnecessary hurdles, and get you support from staff. In Semester Withdrawal: Students may submit in semester withdrawals before the last day of classes for the fall and spring semesters by submitting the University Withdrawal Form. The withdrawal will be effective as of the date the withdrawal form was signed. Students will not earn credit and will receive W grades in all in-progress courses. Additionally, students will be dropped from any upcoming courses unless they indicate their intent to return in the re-enrollment section of the form. Future Semester Withdrawal: Students can proactively withdraw from an upcoming semester by choosing the “Withdrawal effective after I complete my current term's courses” plan. By selecting this option, students will remain enrolled in any in-progress courses to receive their in-semester grades. The withdrawal will become in effect at the conclusion of the term and dropped from any upcoming courses. Students have the option to set up a re-enrollment plan for a future term as well, as long as it is within 2 consecutive semesters. Special instructions for newly accepted students in their first semester Newly accepted students in their first semester Are you a newly accepted student in your first semester and is it before the end of add/drop? If no, please go to the appropriate undergraduate or graduate withdrawal instructions. If YES, follow the applicable instructions in this box before the end of add/drop; please do not fill out the Withdrawal form if add/drop has not ended as it will be voided. International Students : before the end of add/drop in your first semester, please do the following: use your WISER to drop your classes and update your U.S. address contact isss@umb.edu to transfer out, after this process is done contact Undergrad.Admissions@umb.edu or Graduate.Admissions@umb.edu to cancel or defer your acceptance Domestic Students : before the end of add/drop in your first semester, please drop your classes via WISER and contact Undergrad.Admissions@umb.edu or Graduate.Admissions@umb.edu to cancel or defer your acceptance. Please note if add/drop has ended and you are looking to withdraw from the university, please complete the withdrawal application. In semester withdrawals will receive grades of W Withdrawal Checklists and Instructions Undergraduate Student Withdrawals Students who plan to withdraw from the university should review the withdrawal checklist to understand all the ramifications of this decision. Please follow the instructions to make sure you withdraw successfully. Undergraduate Student Withdrawal Checklist Graduate Student Withdrawal Graduate Students Discuss your decision. Withdrawing from the university has many ramifications. Please consult with your Graduate Program Director Graduate Students are subject to a Statute of Limitations must maintain continuous registration, so should complete the Graduate Leave of Absence Request From in order to extend their timeline and be placed on Program Fee for the duration of their leave. Students who plan to withdraw from the university should review the withdrawal checklist to understand all the ramifications of this decision. Please follow the instructions to make sure you withdraw successfully. Graduate Student Withdrawal Checklist How to Return to the University If you did not complete the withdrawal form or did not opt in for re-enrollment when you withdrew or didn’t enroll for a semester, you submit your request to return to your studies via the re-enrollment application. We want your transition back to be as smooth as possible, so if you have any questions or concerns about what you are required to do, please feel free to reach out to reg.forms@umb.edu . Undergraduate Students - How to Return Students who leave the University in good standing may apply to resume their studies by completing the applicable Re-Enrollment form on the Registrar's forms page You will be notified in writing of your readmission status. Students who have been suspended or dismissed from the University and wish to resume their education should follow the instructions on the re-enrollment form which include writing a letter of appeal addressed to the Standards and Credits Committee of their college. For deadlines and more specific information please check with your college. Graduate Students - How to Return 1. Graduate degree candidates who did not request a formal Leave of Absence when they withdrew must complete the Re-Enrollment Application for Graduate Students and submit it to the appropriate Graduate Program Director one month before the beginning of the semester for which the application is being made. >>Upon readmission, students who did not maintain continuous registration will be assessed back program fees to a maximum of six semesters 2. Eligibility for readmission is limited to students who were in good standing at the time of their withdrawal, and who are still in compliance with the statute of limitations policy governing the completion of the degree. >>Students who are not within the time limits of the statute of limitations policy must                 additionally request an extension of their SOL. 3. Graduate degree candidates who did not maintain continuous registration and who wish to resume the pursuit of their degree may be subject to the policies and requirements in effect at the time of readmission. >>Courses older than seven years cannot be used toward the degree, except with prior written permission of the graduate program director. >>It is within the program director's discretion to disallow any previously taken courses from counting toward the readmitted student's degree program. Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms