This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > GRAD > nursng > nursng 745 Population Health I Course #: NURSNG 745 Description: This is the first course in a two-semester Population Health sequence. It will provide a foundation for population health study. The course focuses on the conceptual understanding of population health and its importance in the health care system and in the community. Understanding population health issues such as health promotion, and disease and injury prevention that are influenced by local, national, and global health is an approach that seeks to improve the health of the whole population. The lens of population health student also allows us to understand disparities in health outcomes, and to identify effective strategies for reducing gaps in health disparities both within and between population groups. By the end of this course, students will be able to analyze and evaluate priority population health outcomes and strategies within--population health and its determinants-- to promote health locally, nationally, and globally. Pre Requisites: Offered in: 2024 Spring Section Class Number Schedule/Time Instructor Location 01 9094 - Zhang,Lingling Session: Regular Class Dates: 01/22/2024 - 05/08/2024 Capacity: 30 Enrolled: 19 Status: Open Credits: 3/3 Class Notes: Pre Requisites: Course Attributes: Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000