Wiser Faq - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Software & Systems WISER Wiser Faq Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems WISER Faculty Help Staff Help Student Help Wiser Faq Email Password CloudPC Docusign Electronic Signature Software for Faculty & Staff Student IT Discounts Wifi Aira Accessibility Technology Telecom Mathematica Admin Systems Services for Alumni Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology WISER FAQ How do I log in? Your campus user ID is the part of your campus email address before the ‘@umb.edu’. Your password is the same one you use to access campus webmail, Wifi and other services. Select Boston from the Campus dropdown menu. For information about managing your password, go to umb.edu/it/password . How is student personal information kept private in WISER? The privacy of information in WISER is protected under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). To learn how to secure the confidentiality of protected student data, please review The Guide to Information Security for Faculty and Staff . In order to ensure compliance with this law, faculty and staff will be asked to complete a FERPA quiz when they log into WISER once each semester. How long does my log-in to WISER last? You will be logged out of WISER after 60 minutes of inactivity. You will also be logged out of WISER if you log out of any other Secure Access applications (e.g. HR Direct) or if you clear your browser history. Can I save the log-in page as a bookmark or favorite? No, using a bookmark to open the Secure Access Log-in page will result in an error after logging in. Please bookmark wiser.umb.edu instead. How do I access the Degree Audits in WISER? For Undergraduate Students: Degree audits are not available to graduate students or non-degree students. Log in to WISER . In the mobile view, click on the Boston Degree Audit icon. In the classic view, click on the Boston Degree Audit link or select the item from the Quick Links dropdown menu and click the » button. Log in with the same campus user ID and password you use for WISER. For Faculty: Log in to WISER . Click on the Faculty / Advisor Center tile. Click on the Advisor Center tab. Locate the student in your list of advisees and click on the Student Center link, or use the View Data for Other Students button to search for the student by ID or name. Click on the Boston Degree Audit link or select the item from the Quick Links dropdown menu and click the » button. Log in with the same campus user ID and password you use for WISER. How do I search for courses? Check out our instructional videos on searching and registering for courses . To search without logging in to WISER, use our Course Wizard . How do I request a transcript? Official transcripts should be requested through the Registrar’s Office , including Boston State College transcripts. What's this "Direct Login Error" mean? If you encounter the Direct Login Error page, clear your browser history and login by going to wiser.umb.edu Never use browser bookmarks or favorites with WISER. Is WISER broken? I think it's broken. First, try clearing your browser’s history (including cookies). If you are still having trouble with WISER, try another browser, like Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome . If all else fails, please contact the IT Service Desk . Where is the question I want answered? If you have a question that's not listed here, let us know . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms