Visiting Other Libraries - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Library Interlibrary Loan Visiting Other Libraries Menu menu Menu About Healey Library Course Reserves E-Resources Help Info For Faculty Interlibrary Loan Visiting Other Libraries Journals My Library Account Visiting Other Libraries UMass Boston belongs to three different library consortia, which include many of the academic libraries in the Boston area and beyond. Researchers interested in visiting Healey Library in person should refer to the guidance for Visitors to Healey Library . PLEASE NOTE: Each library sets their own visitor policies, many of which have changed dramatically during the global pandemic. We recommend contacting the library to confirm their visitor policies before making a trip to that library. You may also Ask a Librarian for assistance with planning your visit to another library. Boston Library Consortium (BLC) Apply for a BLC Card for UMass Boston community members BLC Member Libraries Visitor Policies for BLC Libraries Current UMass Boston faculty, staff and students, whose library records are in good standing, are eligible for a BLC card . The BLC card allows you to borrow materials from the libraries in the Boston Library Consortium. Check with individual college and universities libraries for access and borrowing policies . Fenway Library Organization (FLO) Member Libraries As an affiliate FLO member, you may be able to visit and borrow items in person from FLO libraries. Contact the library you wish to visit to check their individual access and borrowing policies before visiting. MCCLPHEI Member Libraries at 29 campuses of the Commonwealth's public higher education system. Current UMass Boston faculty, staff and students have direct borrowing privileges at most Massachusetts state college libraries. You will need to have a valid UMass Boston ID . Check with individual college and universities libraries for access and borrowing policies. Visitors to Healey Library Healey Library is open to fully vaccinated visitors from outside the UMB community. Researchers, who are fully vaccinated, from BLC, FLO, MCCLPHEI, or other libraries are welcome to visit Healey Library. Per UMass Boston policy, visitors must: Follow all campus safety protocols . Visitors must be fully vaccinated and boosted and should complete a daily self-check before coming to campus. At this time, visiting researchers to Archives will be asked to verify their vaccination status when they make their research appointment. Boston Public Library (BPL) The Boston Public Library (BPL) is also a research library--one of two public research libraries in the United States. (The New York Public Library is the other public research library.) Any resident, student, or worker in Massachusetts is eligible for a BPL library card and BPL eCard (which enables remote access to the BPL's electronic resources). Library Menu About Accessibility Archives Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Databases List E-Resources Give Now Healey Library News Help Info for Faculty InterLibrary Loan My Library Account Research Guides (Search by topic) ScholarWorks (Campus Archives for Faculty Research and Publications) UMBrella Worldcat at UMass Boston (Search libraries worldwide) Healey Library 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 US 617.287.5900 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms