Events - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Events Menu menu Menu About Contact Courses Events Join Sigs What's Happening at OLLI Stay in the know... OLLI Connections , our weekly newsletter, details upcoming events, schedule changes, important dates, fundraisers and other information. You do not need to be a member to get this weekly email update. Check out our current edition below and if you like what you see, click "Join Our Email List" in the upper right corner of the newsletter to be placed on the weekly distribution list. Connections usually is sent every Wednesday evening. OLLI Connections - September 18 Edition Upcoming Events Fall Theatre Outings Day Trip to Quabbin Reservoir and Leaf Peeping! Tuesday, October 8 Cost: $45 (includes lunch and transportation) OLLI members will travel out to central Massachusetts on board a Yankee Line motor coach to learn more about the Quabbin Reservoir and have a chance to explore portions of the grounds. Lunch will be at Salem Cross Inn, with a stop at Breezelad Orchards and Farmstand on the way back to Boston. Departure time from UMass Boston Campus: 7:30 a.m. Event flyer with registration and additional details . Boston Harbor Islands Fall Excursion Wednesday, October 9  |  10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Cost: $15 Enjoy the autumn colors of the ocean and the Islands along with a narration by OLLI member Suzanne Gall Marsh and OLLI Scholar Cyrus Marion Boarding begins at 10:15 a.m. at the UMass Fox Point boat dock. Bring a snack and beverages; there is no food sold on the vessel. Event flyer with registration and additional details . Guest Lecturer: Padraig O’Malley Wednesday, October 16 @ 12:30 p.m. Cost: $45, includes sit-down lunch at the Quincy Neighborhood Club Irish international peacemaker, author, and professor, Padraig O'Malley will speak at OLLI's first fall fundraising event. O'Malley specializes in the problems of divided societies, such as South Africa and Northern Ireland. He is also the John Joseph Moakley Distinguished Professor of Peace and Reconciliation at UMass Boston's McCormack School. O’Malley will talk about his new book that came out in 2023: Perils and Prospects of a United Ireland . Event flyer with registration and additional details . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms