Give - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Development & Education Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Give Menu menu Menu People Research & Evaluation Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Give Impact Report, Mission, Model & Evaluation Summer Stars Saturday Camp Staff and Volunteers Boston Marathon Team TCS New York City Marathon Team International Marathons and Premier Race Events Thrive for Shriver Challenge Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner Media Packet And Publications Best Practices for Inclusive Camps Center Academics Give to Camp Shriver It is always so hard to say good-bye to our campers at the end of the summer! We miss the smiles and laughs, the yells and the woops...but we know we have made a difference and are saying goodbye to a group of children that had fun playing together and learned to appreciate each other’s differences. Camp Shriver served over 125 children this summer, making sure that 50% of those campers were children with disabilities. As a free camp, we serve as many children as possible each summer, but the need is great: this year, Camp Shriver turned away over 100 children from our free, inclusive summer sports camp. We worry that many of these families don’t have other opportunities for their children. You can help in two very important ways: Help us continue to offer our services at no charge to families by making a tax-deductible donation to Camp Shriver . Sharing your story about how Camp Shriver has made a difference in your—or your child’s—life. As always, thank you for your support and the continued gift of being able to serve children with and without disabilities each summer. Together, we will make sure that all children have the chance to learn and play—as equals. Sincerely, Mark Spolidoro                                             Barbara Gildea Director, Camp Shriver                                 CSDE Assistant Director of Community Programs P.S. Support Camp Shriver by giving online today!! You can also support Camp Shriver by downloading a sponsorship form and mailing it to: Center for Social Development and Education ATTN: Camp Shriver University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms