Voicemail - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Software & Systems Telecom Voicemail Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems WISER Email Password CloudPC Docusign Electronic Signature Software for Faculty & Staff Student IT Discounts Wifi Aira Accessibility Technology Telecom Mobile Mobile Request Telephone Voicemail Mathematica Admin Systems Services for Alumni Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Voicemail Services MX-One Voice Mail Download MX-One Quick Guide (pdf) Voicemail and Mitel Contact Center Application Retrieving Voicemail Messages Resetting Voicemail Password FAQ New MX-ONE Voice Mail - Feature Instructions Mailbox Setup: Initializing your voice mailbox for the first time When accessing your mailbox for the FIRST TIME, you need to initialize by dialing the information below. If you've DONE the setup already and need to access your mailbox just dial 7-4700 and enter your personal password. From your telephone: Dial 7-4700. Enter the temporary security code (5) 00000. The tutorial will begin. You'll hear, "As a new subscriber you need to record your audio name. Press 2 to start recording and to stop recording press 2. To save press 5, to review press 6, to discard press 4 and record. If satisfied, you will hear, "now you will record your personal greeting. To start recording press 2 to stop recording press 2." You'll hear a recording of your greeting*. If you would like to discard and re-record your personal greeting, press 4. If you are satisfied, press 5." If satisfied, you will hear, "Thank you. Your mailbox is ready. You will now be transferred to the Main Menu."  You can hang up after recording your audio name and greeting. If you stay on the line, you'll hear the Main Menu options. Download the MX-One Quick reference guide to help you navigate through your voicemail Voicemail and Mitel Contact Center Applications There are many voicemail applications on the UMass Boston campus. You have probably encountered them when calling academic departments, campus services, or administrative offices. Within our voicemail systems, we can create a menu tree with phone options that you the client would like to see played back when outside callers are trying to reach your department. MiContact Center With MiContact Center any enterprise can improve their customer service through complete, up-to-date information about their staff instantly at hand, and quick response to customer requests. MiCC allows the user to successfully manage the customer experience center with real-time dashboards, historical reports, and business analytics. The powerful suite of management tools in the MiContact Center solution provides continuous, detailed insights into the contact-center activity without adding complexity. The reporting, real-time viewing, networking, and configuration capabilities enable you to compare the use of different resources and analyze queue performance metrics and overall contact-center efficiency. For more information or to schedule an application design meeting, please contact telecommunications via email below. it-telecom@umb.edu. Retrieving Voicemail Messages Retrieving Voicemail Messages (On-Campus) From on-campus, Dial 7-4700 System will ask you for your 5 digit extension (7-XXXX) If calling from your phone, you will be directed immediately to your voicemail box System will prompt you for your password/security code Retrieving Voicemail Messages (Off-Campus) Dial 617.287.4700 Hear the "system greeting" Press # Enter your mailbox number Enter your security code Continue with the prompts for the feature desired Retrieving Voicemail Messages (From another phone on campus) Dial 7-4700 Press * Press # System will ask for your 5 digit extension (7-XXXX) System will ask for your password/security code. To have your voicemail forwarded to your UMB email please contact the IT Service Desk. Reset password send email to itservicedesk@umb.edu Frequently Asked Questions How can I stop my MWI light from blinking? To clear the MWI light, press #56# Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms