Blackboard - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Blackboard Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Base Navigation Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools About Blackboard Blackboard Learn™ Original is the Learning Management System chosen by the University to help instructors provide effective and engaging learning in the classroom and beyond. Blackboard is a robust system with many options for communication, collaboration, and assessment. Book a consult Resources View the Quick Start Guide Request Content Copied Merge Courses Transfer Grades from Blackboard to WISER Access Blackboard Visit the login page at https://umb.umassonline.net and log in with your UMass Boston email user name and password. Learning with Blackboard: Student Orientation The following is a list of guides and demonstrations that we recommend you provide to students to help orient them to Blackboard. Teaching with Blackboard Follow the Blackboard Quick Start Guide to begin building your course. Visit the Learning Design Services YouTube channel for tips and demonstrations by our in-house learning designers. Visit Blackboard's Help site for more guides. Course Design Guidance Contact Learning Design Services at learningdesign@umb.edu for help with designing your course according to best practices established at UMass Boston. Request Your Content Copied The University provides a Blackboard course shell for every class listed in WISER, with a blank template already applied. To reuse content from a previous semester please fill out the Course Content Request form. Blackboard Policies and Procedures Please see Blackboard Policies and Procedures for important information regarding the use of Blackboard at UMass Boston. Reflecting Chosen Name and Pronouns in Blackboard Blackboard Course Data Storage Policy Courses taught on Blackboard are stored for three years. Faculty are encouraged to download archives of their courses. Learn more about the Blackboard Course Data Storage Policy and access resources for archiving and importing content. Technical Support Phone and online 24/7 technical assistance is available to students and faculty. The same support is accessible through the Help button present in all Blackboard courses. Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms