Gonzalo.Bacigalupe - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Gonzalo.Bacigalupe Gonzalo Bacigalupe Department: Counseling & School Psychology Title: Grad Prog Dir/Professor Location: Wheatley Hall Floor 02 Phone: 617.287.7631 Send Email Degrees EdD, University of Massachusetts Amherst MPH, Harvard University Additional Information Gonzalo Bacigalupe, EdD, MPH, is professor of Counseling Psychology at the University of Massachusetts Boston . He is principal investigator of the Mediated Technologies for DRD at the National Research Center for Integrated Disaster Risk Management ( CIGIDEN ), and adjunct professor at the Catholic University of Chile School of Engineering. His research with colleagues in Chile, Mexico, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and the USA, focuses on the impact of emerging media adoption on families, the role of patient online communities, the use of emerging media to build community resilience for disaster risk reduction, and family health. Bacigalupe has published and presented on research addressing the role of emerging digital technologies and vulnerable populations including transnational families and couples , political and family violence , family health and disparities ( celiac disease , chronic pain , and medication strategies and literacy ), e-health , and social technologies. He is presently studying the role of digital volunteers and the use of drones to strengthen disaster risk reduction among vulnerable communities in Chile. Professor Bacigalupe is recipient of the 2016 APA Carolyn Attneave Diversity Award by the Society of Family Psychology, a division of the American Psychological Association. Gonzalo was elected as member of the board of directors of the Family Process Institute for the 2018-2021 period. Gonzalo is an APA fellow of the Society of Family Psychology, the International Psychology, and the Quantitative and Qualitative Methods Divisions) and was President of the American Family Therapy Academy (2014-2016). He is coeditor of Psicoperspectivas and member of several editorial boards: Family Process , Couple and Family Psychology: Research and Practice , Qualitative Research in Psychology, AFTA Monograph Series, and BioMed Central Public Health . Bacigalupe has been co-principal investigator of a Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute Pilot research project: Influence and evidence: Understanding consumer choices in preventive care . He was research faculty in the Health Equity Scholars Program of the UMass Center for Health Equity Intervention Research (CHEIR), an NIMHHD P-60 5 years grant for a joint effort with the UMass Medical School. A passionate advocate of patient participation, his work was featured in the 2014 Stanford MedX Conference . In conjunction with the Basque Institute for Healthcare Innovation (o+Berri) and the Population Health Management Research Team at Kronikgune , he evaluated the role of health care virtual communities of practice and the role of social networks in supporting patients with chronic illness. He was senior researcher in the Deusto Stress and Resilience Research Team. As part of the Basque Prescribe Healthy Life (PVS) research team, he collaborated in a practice outcome based implementation research project to integrate a population health model in primary care. Professor Bacigalupe serves as reviewer for the Spanish Minister of Education and Science, the Catalunya Government Research Agency, CONICYT, and others. Bacigalupe is cofounder and chchair of the Boston Institute for Culturally Accountable Practices ( BICAP ) which the Family Therapy Networker awarded the Innovative Training Award for excellence and outstanding achievement in providing quality clinical training. BICAP has consulted, among others, with the Boston Red Sox and Harvard Medical School on cultural competence and institutional equity. Bacigalupe is a strategic advisor of Regroup , a web-based platform that provides a simple and secure space for therapists and clients to connect online. Bacigalupe is a Licensed Marital and Family Therapist in Massachusetts, an AAMFT Approved Supervisor, a National Registered Health Provider, and a Massachusetts Child & Adolescent Needs and Strengths (CANS) Certified Assessor. He holds a degree as a clinical psychologist from the Catholic University of Chile, a doctoral degree in counseling and consulting psychology from the University of Massachusetts Amherst and a master in public health from Harvard University. Professor Bacigalupe was Ikerbasque Research Professor at the University of Deusto and Senior Fulbright Research Fellow at the Autonomic University of Barcelona. He has received funding by National Institute of Aging, Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services, American Psychological Foundation, Bizkaia Lab , the Spanish Minister of Education, the Basque Government, o+Berri, among others. The Massachusetts Association of Marital and Family Therapy honored him in 2007 with an Award in Recognition of Exceptional Contribution to the Profession of Family Therapy. In the past years he has served as Councilor (2010-2013) of the American Public Health Association International Section, and VP for Public Interest & Diversity (2010-2012) of the Society for Family Psychology (Div. 43 APA), Executive Committee Member at Large (2011-2012) of the Society for Participatory Medicine , and Associate Editor of Family Systems & Health. Please refer to http://bacigalupe.wordpress.com/ for scholarly works and click here to view his CV . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms