Cart - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Hardware & Labs Labs Cart Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Hardware Purchase Request A Computer Get IT Equipment Loaners Repair Adaptive Computer Lab Labs Bookit Cart Chromebooks Design Faculty Info Grc Gul Hardware Hours Langlab Policies Reservations Staff Student Info Print Surplus Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Mobile Computer Lab–Laptops IT Lab Operations maintains Mobile Laptop carts for classrooms and other University uses.  Our Dell / Windows laptops are equipped with wireless access, web browsers, Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, and more. Other applications can be installed with advanced notice as allowable. Please Note: Requests for the mobile classroom (iPads or Laptops) must be made one week in advance to allow for proper scheduling, delivery, and updating of the equipment. Please submit all requests through our online Mobile Carts scheduling platform: BookIT Bookit.umb.edu/carts Student Self-Checkout Method for The Classroom IT Lab Operations / Classroom Technology and AV Services now offer self-checkout laptops, accessible to students for in-class use. Here is how it works: To ensure the proper handling of laptops being loaned out to the students directly, instructors are required to email a class roster to IT-ClassTech@umb.edu when asked for before it can be approved. This will allow the laptops to be deployed to their maximum utility for the classes that make the reservation. Also, it will be necessary to properly check out laptops to students in the class that made the reservation. Students are required to: 1. Present a student ID as collateral for borrowing a laptop during the class period. 2. Complete and sign a check out form for the laptop loan. Your Student ID will be returned to you once the laptops are received by the Classroom Technology and AV Services staff . Mobile Cart Reservation: The mobile classroom carts are stationed in the Classroom Technology and AV Services in McCormack Hall (M-2-112), University Hall (Y-1-1032A), and Wheatley Hall (W-1-039). * Please note: Mobile Classroom carts are only available to on-campus locations that are serviceable via the catwalk. There is one laptop cart per media office that contains 25-30 laptops. In the event students need laptops to be used in a classroom via a cart deployment, please submit a request through Bookit . Your request will be approved or denied within 48 hours. If you have any questions, please email IT-ClassTech@umb.edu . Please specify the location of the mobile cart (choose from McCormack, Wheatley, or University Hall), the time you wish to reserve it, and provide the list of people involved (roster). If computers for your class are needed more than three times during the semester (i.e. for a full semester course), we recommend requesting a physical classroom computer lab, also via Bookit . We need the following information for your reservation: 1. How many students in your class need laptops?  Keep in mind that many students will bring their own devices to class. 2. Where is your class location? 3. What is the name of the course? Mobile Classroom Hours of Availability: Monday – Thursday 9:30 a.m.—8:45 p.m. Friday 9:30 a.m.—4:15 p.m. For other special types of mobile requests: Please send an email to IT-ClassTech@umb.edu with your request for deployment. Mobile Classroom Software McCormack Hall Wheatley Hall U-Hall Windows 10 Enterprise Windows 10 Enterprise Windows 10 Enterprise Chrome Chrome Chrome Firefox Firefox Firefox Office Suite Office Suite Office Suite SPSS 29 SPSS 29 SPSS 29 STATA 18 STATA 18 STATA 18 7-Zip 7-Zip 7-Zip APE- A plasmid editor APE- A plasmid editor APE- A plasmid editor RStudio RStudio RStudio Please include any extra software needs in your reservation on Bookit.umb.edu by filling out the "Required Software" section. Alternatively, you can email these requirements to ComputerLabs@umb.edu . Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms