Mission - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for the Humanities, Culture & Society Mission Menu menu Menu Faculty Mission Mission Statement Center for the Study of Humanities, Culture, and Society (CHCS) The CHCS seeks to showcase the broad range of scholarly work under the banner of the humanities by facilitating programs and conversations that bring together faculty and students across the university. The humanities offer distinct methods and perspectives for understanding the world through critical analysis, foregrounding narrative, history, philosophy, and aesthetics. The humanities enable us to address essential and enduring questions about culture and society as well as to contemplate more urgent issues confronting individuals and communities right now. The CHCS organizes a range of events and conversations on campus each year that invite scholars, artists, writers, and activists to share emerging critical and creative work focused around an annual theme. We see these events as opportunities to bring students and faculty at UMass Boston-- as well as in the greater Boston area-- into dialogue with emergent scholarly research and to generate possibilities for interdisciplinary and cross-institutional collaboration. In keeping with the unique composition and mission of UMass Boston, as well as ongoing directions in humanities scholarship, the CHCS is committed to creating a program that represents a diverse range of voices, perspectives, and positionalities. Beyond these events, the CHCS seeks to cultivate intellectual and professional solidarity across humanities departments and programs on campus. We aim to make visible the vital work of humanities scholars toward solving pressing problems and confronting enduring social realities. The CHCS recognizes the foundational role of humanistic inquiry to a liberal arts education, yet it also aims to highlight how humanities methods offer an indispensable resource for scholars in other disciplines and for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts more broadly. The CHCS was founded in 2006 as the Research Center for Urban Cultural History. The Center was renamed with a broader mandate in 2013. History of CHCS The CHCS was founded in 2006 as the Research Center for Urban Cultural History. The center was renamed with a broader mandate in 2013. Center for the Humanities, Culture, and Society Wheatley Hall Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.3130 Maps & Directions Connect Get directions to the UMass Boston campus Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join our Email List For more information, contact the CHCS office Giving to UMass Boston Expand understanding of the humanities through a gift to the Center for the Humanities, Culture, and Society. Give Now UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms