Security - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Security Home Information Technology Security Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Antivirus Encryption External Sender Guidelines Junkmail Laptop Theft MFA Passwords Phishing PII Scan SecureIT Server Social Media SSL Standards Research & Innovation About Information Technology Mandatory Cybersecurity Awareness Training for All Staff and Faculty Dear UMass Boston Faculty and Staff, I am writing to inform you about a significant new initiative from Information Technology Services in partnership with the Human Resources Office and the President's Office. We are introducing mandatory cybersecurity training for all faculty and staff as required by Massachusetts State Law ( 201 CMR 17.00 ) to enhance our collective knowledge and practices in safe computing and data privacy. The training will be delivered through the familiar “Get Inclusive” platform. You will soon receive an initial notification, along with subsequent reminders, via email from UMass Education ( umasseducation@education.umass.edu ). It is essential that all faculty and staff complete this Data Security training module by December 18th, 2024. For more detailed information about cybersecurity and the training module, please visit our website at umb.edu/it/security . In addition, it is mandatory you familiarize yourself with the Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) using the following link: Read the Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) We value your cooperation and feedback. Should you have any questions or suggestions, please feel free to reach out to Wil Khouri, our Chief Information Security Officer, at Wil.Khouri@umb.edu . Thank you for your attention to this critical initiative. Your participation is key to our success in maintaining a secure and safe computing environment. Sincerely, Ray Lefebvre Raymond V. Lefebvre Vice Chancellor and CIO Information Technology Services University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA  02125 617-287-5240 Information Security The ISO runs various projects and operates numerous tools and services to safeguard UMass Boston’s personal and institutional data, all in pursuit of our goal of preventing the loss or theft of our information assets. We utilize every resource available in our commitment to maintaining an impenetrable system of information security at UMass Boston. Information Security Program: UMass Boston Written Information Security Program (WISP) Information Security Policies: UMass Boston Information Security Policies (pdf) Information Technology Acceptable Use Policies (AUP) (pdf) Information Security Newsletters: Secure IT Newsletter June 2024 (pdf) Secure IT Newsletter March 2024 (pdf) Secure IT Newsletter for October 2024 (pdf) How You Can Help Technology, especially information technology, is essential to the purpose and mission of higher education at UMass Boston, and the university needs to know its data and informational infrastructure is safe. To that end, in addition to the work we do behind the scenes, ISO Staff offer many services and features that students, faculty and staff can access right from this page. Taking advantage of some of these options is a great way to participate in our university’s information security efforts, and keep yourself safe. One of the most basic things the ISO must do is prevent against computer viruses. Visit the Antivirus page to learn about antivirus resources available as well as tips for prevention and protection. Secure IT is the IT security education program that helps the UMass Boston community stay informed and up to date on security issues. Secure IT courses keep everyone here at the top of the class in information security! We also utilize many tools to prevent against phishing attacks, including The "EXTERNAL SENDER" Label Extended Validation SSL Certificates . Learn more about protecting yourself from phishing on Phishing - Don't Get Scammed! Staff can see how Data Encryption can help when working with Personally Identifiable Information (PII) . A more recent security function that ISO has also implemented is Multi-Factor Authentication , which is an added layer of safety if one of your Passwords has been hacked or figured out. Education and awareness are crucial to information security, both at the institutional level and for individual users. Everyone should be familiar with Network Server Security Requirements and Procedures , and users can protect personal information and their computers by reviewing Security Guidelines , Social Media Security , and Windows Security Updates . It also never hurts to scan your computer every so often and catch up on tips to keep your computing experience safe by clicking Scan Your Computer/Safe Computing Tips . Finally, see Web Browser Settings to learn how to clear out your browser history and cache from both Windows and Mac computers, and Junk Mail Help to see how to keep your inbox free of spam and other unwanted emails. As much as we in the Information Security Office wish it were possible, we can’t do cybersecurity all by ourselves. It must be a campus-wide effort, participated in by the entire UMass Boston community. The good news is that the community HAS always participated and made valuable contributions to our ongoing cybersecurity efforts. The Beacons always come through and the ISO is grateful for all that you do. Thank you! UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms