Beyond The Classroom - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Anthropology Student Resources Beyond The Classroom Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Graduate Undergraduate Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Beyond the Classroom Here is a list of resources available for students to take their Anthropological learning outside the classroom. Anthropology Research Labs The Department has superb laboratory facilities for archaeology and biological anthropology. Faculty members conduct a wide variety of research projects and encourage student participation in these projects. Many of these offer opportunities for undergraduates to work with graduate student mentors. Click here to learn more about the Archaeology Lab spaces. Anthropology Field Schools During the summer months, members of the Anthropology Department regularly conducts several field schools. Dr. Lauren Sullivan conducts a field school in prehistoric archaeology in Belize, Central America ; Dr. Stephen Mrozowski runs a field school on Shelter Island , New York; Dr. Stephen Silliman has a field school based at the Eastern Pequot Reservation in North Stonington, Connecticut ; and the Fiske Center staff members Dr. David Landon and Dr. Christa Beranek have worked on a multiyear project to uncover the earliest colonial histories of Plymouth, Massachusetts . Please see the project directors for more information on these educational and professional opportunities. Colloquia and Other Special Events The Department sponsors a number of speakers throughout the year to talk about current research or subjects of interest to anthropologists and the broader university community. Some speakers may be candidates for faculty positions, and in such cases students as well as faculty are invited to evaluate these anthropologists as potential members of our faculty. Speakers in these symposia have included internationally eminent anthropologists. The Department also sponsors speakers jointly with other departments and programs (e.g., Native American and Indigenous Studies; Transnational, Cultural and Community Studies; Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance; Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights), and routinely collaborates with the Anthropology Club in sponsoring a colloquia and social events. Alpha Lambda Lambda Alpha is the national honors organization for anthropology. The Beta of Massachusetts Chapter at UMass Boston was founded in 2006 and includes undergraduate students, graduate students, and faculty members. In order to join our chapter you must be a junior or senior or graduate student with a minimum of twenty hours of Anthropology classes and have a minimum of a 3.0 cumulative overall GPA. The lifetime membership fee is $25.00, and you may list this among you honors/affiliations indefinitely. Members are eligible for several scholarships provided by the national office and may also submit their work to the national Lambda Alpha Journal. Please contact the faculty sponsor (Lauren A. Sullivan) for more information. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms