The Ethics of Emerging Technologies - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Ethics The Ethics of Emerging Technologies Menu menu Menu Who We Are Advisory Board The Ethics of Emerging Technologies Ethics of Public Memory The Ethics of Emerging Technologies How does artificial intelligence change the people using it? What does the future of work look like in an age of increasing automation? How will brain-machine interface technologies impact our basic capacities? The Applied Ethics Center and the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies have launched a long term collaboration to explore the ethics and politics of AI. The initiative involves the creation of three post-doctoral fellowships, public lectures, and a series of conferences and symposia. Research The Ethics of Emerging Technologies initiative supports research on the nexus of philosophy, politics and artificial intelligence. Recent publications supported by the project include: “AI and Phronesis” by Nir Eisikovits and Dan Feldman, published in Moral Philosophy and Politics “AI and the Traditional Grounds for Human Rights” by Nir Eisikovits, forthcoming as part of a symposium on the second edition of Claudio Corradetti’s Relativism and Human Rights: A Theory of Pluralistic Universalism (Springer). To be published as an appendix in the second edition of the book. “A Review of The Ethics of AI and Robotics: A Buddhist Viewpoint” by James Hughes in the Journal of Buddhist Ethics 28 : 113-120 "Workplace Automation and Political Replacement: A Valid Analogy?" by Jake Burley and Nir Eisikovits, published in AI and Ethics "The Post-Dystopian Technorealism of Ted Chiang" by James Hughes and Nir Eisikovits in The Journal of Ethics and Emerging Technologies Vol. 32 No. 1 Eisikovits, Johnson, Markelevich “Should Accountants Be Afraid of AI? Risks and Opportunities of Incorporating Artificial Intelligence into Accounting and Auditing” Accounting Horizons 20(20) 2024 Policy Papers "The Democratic Metaverse: Building an Extended Reality Safe for Citizens, Workers and Consumers" by Alec Stubbs, James Hughes, and Nir Eisikovits " Emerging Technologies & Higher Education" by Jake Burley and Alec Stubbs with James Hughes and Nir Eisikovits "The Ethics of Automating Therapy" by Jake Burley, James Hughes, Alec Stubbs, and Nir Eisikovits Popular Media: The Applied Ethics Center is committed to disseminating research to the broader public. Below are some pieces aimed at a general audience. You can also find discussions related to the Ethics of Emerging Technologies on our podcast Ethics in Action . "There is No Such Thing as Robot Proofing" by Nir Eisikovits and Dan Feldman for Slate "ChatGPT, DALL-E 2 and the collapse of the creative process" by Nir Eisikovits and Alec Stubbs for The Conversation "AI is killing choice and chance – which means changing what it means to be human" by Nir Eisikovits and Dan Feldman for The Conversation "College could take place in the metaverse, but these problems must be overcome first" by Nir Eisikovits for The Conversation " The slippery slope of using AI and deepfakes to bring history to life" by Nir Eisikovits for The Conversation "AI is an existential threat – just not the way you think" by Nir Eisikovits for The Conversation "AI isn’t close to becoming sentient – the real danger lies in how easily we’re prone to anthropomorphize it" by Nir Eisikovits for The Conversation “War in Gaza: An ethicist explains why you shouldn’t turn to social media for information about the conflict or to do something about it” by Nir Eisikovits for The Conversation “TikTok fears point to larger problem: Poor media literacy in the social media age” by Nir Eisikovits for The Conversation “Newsrooms are experimenting with generative AI, warts and all” by Nir Eisikovits for The Conversation In the News Is AI a job killer? IBM may think so, but it's all in how you use it. - The Boston Globe ‘ChatGPT, tell me a story’: AI gets literary - Christian Science Monitor Can AI programs be trusted to report the news? - Christian Science Monitor Can TikTok help push climate activism mainstream? - The Boston Globe The promise and the pitfalls of everyday artificial intelligence. - Codcast by Commonwealth Magazine Your Girlfriend Might Not Be Real - Newsweek A technophobe’s guide to AI chatbots - The Boston Globe Mass. bill proposed to ban sales and operation of weaponized robots - The Boston Globe Why AI Can Seem Sentient - Science for the Public (WGBH) How AI is Changing Us - NTN24 TV “How AI-powered robots in law enforcement could become a tool for 'supercharging police bias'” – Nir Eisikovits with All Things Considered AI Ethics - Nir Eisikovits with Boston Public Radio “Why a Chatbot Therapist Could be Worse than No Therapist at All” - Nir Eisikovits with All Things Considered Conferences Past Conferences November 3rd—4th, 2023: Emerging Technologies and the Future of Work. You can view talks from this conference here. Tech Literacy Initiative The Applied Ethics Center has partnered with the City of Boston to create Tech Talk – a program that brings together UMass Boston faculty and youth leaders to discuss the social and psychological implications of social media and AI use by teens. Topics covered so far include privacy, the future of work, AI and writing, and relationships with chatbots. Find out more here: Tech Literacy Memo . Post-Doctoral Fellowships The Applied Ethics Center and the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies are offering three post-doctoral fellowships focused on AI and Society. The first focused on AI and the future of work and began during the fall of 2022. Subsequent fellowships will focus on Brain-Machine interfaces and on social and international conflict. You can find further information on the second fellowship here. Public Lectures Find all of our Public Lectures here . Contact Us Applied Ethics Center 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.6545 nir.eisikovits UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms