Google Workspace - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Tools Google Workspace Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Echo360 Exam Security And Proctoring Google Workspace Gradescope Iclicker Linkedinlearning Pronto Respondus Turnitin Voicethread Web Conferencing Wordpress Google Workspace Google Workspace is a free service available to UMass Boston faculty, students, and staff. Educators can access these specialized tools to facilitate organization and collaboration securely with their UMass Boston email account. Presentations, professional looking flowcharts, forms, and more can be created online in Google Workspace. Book a Consult Access Account All faculty, staff and students have a Google account. To log in to your UMass Boston Google account, go to: https://accounts.google.com and log on with your UMass Boston email address and password. Note: For the best results, use a separate dedicated browser for using the UMass Boston Google account. Watch the video demo on accessing files shared through the UMass Boston Google Workspace and learn how to switch between a personal Google account and the UMass Boston Google account. Get Training Visit LinkedIn Learning for videos on practical uses of Google Workspace. Google Workspace for Education vs Regular Google Workspace Google Workspace for Education provides access to specialized educator-oriented features such as: Compliance with FERPA Compliance with COPPA Unlimited storage in Google Drive Added virus and spam protection No advertisements 99.9% uptime of services (Google Calendar, Google Hangouts, Google Drive, and Google Sites) To learn more, visit Google Workspace for Education: Common Questions and Visit the Google Workspace Learning Center Google Workspace for Education: List of Tools Collaboration Google Docs: create, share, and allow others to edit text-based documents simultaneously. An online alternative to (and compatible with) MS Word. Google Sheets: create and share data reports, charts, and other spreadsheets. An online alternative to (and compatible with) MS Excel. Presentation Google Slides: a simple and easy to use presentation tool for live lectures and group presentations. Includes polling features. Online alternative to (and compatible with) MS PowerPoint. Google Sites: create and publish websites with no web development experience. Organization Google Drive: the folder that stores Google Docs, Google Sheets, Google Slides and other files created online. Drive also allows uploaded non-Google files (PDFs, audio and video files, photos etc.) giving you to access to your files anywhere (on the web, on your hard drive, or on your mobile phone). An alternative to Dropbox (with more storage space!). Google Calendar : an online calendar, shareable with other G Suite users, that keeps track of events, tasks and schedules. Coursework Google Classroom: allows teachers to set up a classroom space, assign work, grade work, and return the work to students. Google Forms: can be used for quizzes, questionnaires, surveys and peer reviews . Easily create online forms that both gather information and store it in a spreadsheet. Google Groups: provides a space for informal discussion groups for people sharing common interests. Jamboard : an interactive electronic whiteboard used to enhance student engagement during live meetings. Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms