Emergency Aid Fund - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Dean Of Students Emergency Aid Fund Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Emergency Aid Fund Services for Faculty & Staff Forms Resources for Parents And Families Referral & Complaint Forms Resources for Students Services for Students Contact Us Student Conduct Process Current Students Emergency Aid Fund Student Emergency Aid Request Form Student Emergency Aid Fund Purpose of the Fund The Student Emergency Aid Fund provides small grants to students for temporary one-time emergency situations including those as a result of natural disasters, homelessness, food insecurity, or threats to a student's rights, educational access, or economic security caused by current and future federal, state, and local immigration policies. Karen Ferrer-Muñiz, Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs and Liya Escalara, Vice Provost of Academic Support Services & Undergraduate Studies oversee the fund. Examples of Approved Requests Replacement of school equipment or books due to theft or natural disaster; cost of food or temporary living expenses due to natural disasters, accidents, housing problems, or domestic violence; visa renewal; or legal representation related to immigration or other forms of discrimination. The fund is not intended to cover the cost of tuition or ongoing living expenses. A request will also involve a review of the student’s financial aid eligibility, including eligibility for additional grant aid and for loans that the student may need to utilize. Applicants may be contacted by a staff member of the Dean of Students Office or U-Access to discuss whether they would like to have a benefits screening. U-Access serves students who are experiencing temporary homelessness, emancipation from foster care, chronic poverty, and chronic hunger. Completing the Form Please include all information requested. Include a copy of your financial aid award letter, reason why aid was denied, or why you did not apply. Supporting documentation should include any information that will support statements in your narrative. For example, if you state that you have lost your job, please include any emails or other communication which show that you have lost the employment. Claims that are not sufficiently documented may not be considered. Please be assured that all verbal and written communications will be treated with the strictest privacy. Other Emergency-Related Resources: The GRAD Last Mile Scholarship U-Access U-Access Referral/Resources UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms