Reservations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Hardware & Labs Labs Reservations Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Hardware Purchase Request A Computer Get IT Equipment Loaners Repair Adaptive Computer Lab Labs Bookit Cart Chromebooks Design Faculty Info Grc Gul Hardware Hours Langlab Policies Reservations General Use Labs Software Staff Student Info Print Surplus Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Reserving a Lab for Classroom Use Reservation Timeline Policies CONFIRMATION OF RESERVATIONS WILL BE SENT OUT WITHIN TWO WEEKS OF YOUR RESERVATION Go to https://bookit.umb.edu . Log in with your UMass Boston email username and password. Learn how to use Bookit . You will able to view the current reservations. Bookit will activate your account within minutes once it verifies that you are a faculty or staff member. After you reserve the labs, you will receive a confirmation within 48 hours. The University of Massachusetts Boston academic programs lasting the entire semester will get first priority, followed by short-term reservations (i.e., for one day or one month only). Grant funded programs not directly related to the students enrolled in the university meeting the deadline will be processed next. Any reservations regardless of program status received after the deadline are filled on availability and first-come-first-served basis. Verify that the software you need is available in the computer labs. Information about classroom and public labs, hardware and software resources, lab reservation usage policies, reservation procedures and deadlines can be found here: Computer Labs & Related Services The blue, white, gold, purple, Mac A, and Mac C labs are available for classroom reservations. Please use our Bookit online system to see which labs are available for reservation. Log in to Bookit with your email username and password to view the schedules. Within minutes your account will be activated once you are verified as a faculty or staff member. Once your account is approved you can then use Bookit to submit your lab reservations online. Our designated scheduler will then review your reservation request(s) and contact you via email to confirm your reservation.  Once your reservation is confirmed, it can be viewed in the Bookit online calendar. The process for deleting a Bookit reservation is the same as making a reservation.  After you edit or delete your reservation, you will receive an email confirmation of the changes. If you wish to request specific software for installation in your lab then please fill out the software request form in addition to using Bookit . Software Installation Policy In the event that the software required for your lab is not already installed on the lab computers, please fill out this software request form and we will get back to you on whether or not it is available for installation. Provide information concerning licenses of software you or the university own that you wish to be installed on the networks or hard drives for the appropriate number of stations in the lab. The computer labs operations manager retains a copy of the license agreement on file. You are required to test the functionality of your additional non-listed software prior to bringing your class to the lab because you and technical staff are familiar with criteria for performance of software not in the computer lab portfolio. You will be notified by a technician about a time to test your software. Installation of non-listed software in standard labs may take up to three weeks after the semester starts and the computer lab images have been finalized depending on licensing and imaging restraints. If you intend to use software installed during a previous semester on the networks or hard drives, you must call to verify that the software is still available by contacting computerlabs@umb.edu . Confirmations, Cancellations, and Changes  Policies Cancellations of confirmed reservations require three-day advance notification by: Editing or deleting your reservation on Bookit . Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms