Gradescope - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Tools Gradescope Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Echo360 Exam Security And Proctoring Google Workspace Gradescope Iclicker Linkedinlearning Pronto Respondus Turnitin Voicethread Web Conferencing Wordpress Gradescope Gradescope is a group of software applications that facilitate grading of paper-based exams administered in a classroom or by the student as homework. Gradescope is a big time-saver for instructors and TAs who are using paper-based tests that are scanned by the instructor or student. Book a Consult Gradescope Resources Get Started with Gradescope Scanner Locations on Campus Student Handout Why Use Gradescope? How Does Gradescope Work? Gradescope allows an instructor to scan collected student work and upload for electronic grading online, or have students directly submit their scanned work to Gradescope for grading. Gradescope uses artificial intelligence (AI)  to automate and expedite the grading of submitted work and is a great solution for large enrollment face-to-face courses. Gradescope also has an application which works with bubble sheets, similar to Scantron. Gradescope is installed as a tool link in Blackboard and the results of all assignments can be uploaded to columns in the Blackboard Grade Center. Get Started Gradescope is available to all UMass Boston faculty at no cost. It is most useful for face-to-face courses that have paper-based exams or homework, especially those that are time-limited and require students to supply answers not easily entered with a digital keyboard. Gradescope is popular for science courses, though it could also be used in social science or any other course that assesses students with paper-based exams. While instructors will typically scan student's tests taken in class, students can also scan their own homework and submit it to Gradescope for evaluation. That would include homework done for online classes. Guides for Faculty Gradescope is best used through its integration with Blackboard ( detailed instructions ). This integration allows the Gradescope student roster to automatically populate from Blackboard, as well as grades to be auto-uploaded to WISER. Info for Students Gradescope is accessed through a tool link in Blackboard Learn. Students can use this link to submit assignments/exams as well as view their graded work and instructor feedback. Here is a handout that explains how to submit Gradescope assignments through Blackboard . Additional Resources More Gradescope training videos Complete Gradescope Help Get Started Guide Gradescope Knowledge Base Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms