Stonewall At Olli - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Sigs Stonewall At Olli Menu menu Menu About Contact Courses Events Join Sigs Books Culinary Informal Writing Group Intergenerational Book Chat Knitting Group Stonewall At Olli Walking Group Stonewall at OLLI Stonewall at OLLI is a community of older LGBTQ learners at UMass Boston's Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI), committed to providing a safe, friendly and welcoming place for people of all sexual orientations, gender identifications and expressions. We promote transparency, equality and respect for all people and strive to add value to the greater OLLI organization. We wish to share educational, social and cultural experiences together and with the larger UMass Boston community. The UMass Boston OLLI was the first of the 124 nationwide OLLIs to create an LGBTQ SIG. We are fully integrated into OLLI as members of all committees and as course facilitators and brown bag presenters. Courses and brown bag presentations by our members include LGBTQ and non-LGBTQ subjects. Our monthly meetings offer our members a spirit of camaraderie within OLLI as well as a way to share suggestions for activities outside of OLLI. Sometimes we invite outside speakers to discuss topics of interest. Our members attend OLLI theater outings and travel on OLLI-organized domestic and international trips. Outside of OLLI our members share meals at state-sponsored senior LGBTQ meal sites around the Boston area. We also network at meal sites and other venues to attract more LGBTQ seniors to OLLI. For more information about Stonewall at OLLI, call the OLLI office at 617.287.7312 or email ollireg@gmail.com and ask how to be connected to a member of Stonewall at OLLI. As a member you will receive monthly meeting notices. Special Interest Groups List Each group is different depending on its focus, and all provide interesting lifelong learning opportunities as well as fun social experiences. See them all. Read More Friends of OLLI A contribution of any size is a gift of knowledge and makes a big difference in the lives of the program and our members. Read More Follow OLLI - UMass Boston Like OLLI at UMass Boston Osher Lifelong Learning Institute McCormack Hall, 3rd Floor, Room 003 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 USA 617.287.7312 Maps & Directions Having trouble reading this page? If you are using a PC, press and hold down the Ctrl key while also pressing=. If you are using a Mac, the keystroke ⌘+ will enlarge the size of the font. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms