Measuring Microplastics in the Marine Environment: - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Measuring Microplastics in the Marine Environment: Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Research Environment Urban Harbors Institute Measuring Microplastics in the Marine Environment: A UMass Boston Study with Nantucket Island and the Nantucket Field Station 01/19/2023 |
    Shannon Hogan, Research Associate In 2019, researchers from the School for the Environment at UMass Boston and the Nantucket Department of Public Works commenced a multi-year study on measuring microplastic abundance and composition in the marine environment of Nantucket Island, located off the coast of Cape Cod, Massachusetts. The goal of this project was to create a baseline for microplastic concentrations in intertidal surface sand and seawater on the island. Island ecosystems are useful study sites as they act as “models” of larger coupled human and natural systems. Furthermore, waste management on an island such as Nantucket is complex due to limited space and thus measures to reduce waste (thereby reducing microplastics) are critical. A knot of fibers found in a sample of beach sand. Microplastics (< 5mm in size) are ubiquitous in terrestrial and marine environments. They originate from both primary and secondary sources. Primary microplastics are plastics that are engineered to be <5 mm, such as microbeads used in cosmetics or “nurdles” which are small pellets that are used as the building blocks for large plastic items (e.g. consumer products). Secondary microplastics occur from the breakdown of large plastic items (> 5mm) known as macroplastics. Through weathering, macroplastics in the environment become brittle and tiny pieces (microplastics) begin to break off. The microplastics are easily transported with ocean currents. Due to their small size, microplastics can be ingested by plankton and passed through the food web. Assessing their abundance in the marine environment is an important step in raising awareness of macro-and microplastic pollution. As part of my master’s thesis, I worked alongside Dr. Juanita Urban-Rich ­­– Principal Investigator on the project and my faculty advisor – to collect and process (in the laboratory) sand and seawater samples from 2019 and 2020. We collected samples from the Town Pier Beach in Nantucket Harbor, Madaket Beach at Warren’s Landing, and Surfside Beach (see map below) during 2019, 2020, and 2021. In 2021, a fourth site was added along the Coskata-Coatue Wildlife Refuge. Sites were chosen for differences in their characteristics: e.g. geography, land-use, and recreational/commercial uses. Collections took place during the summer and fall/winter of each sample year to account for the increase (approximately five-fold) in Nantucket’s population from winter to summer. We analyzed samples by sample site and collection date to assess if either variable influenced microplastic abundance. Microplastics were found in all the intertidal surface sand and seawater samples at all sites, mostly composed of fibers along with instances of films, foams, and hard pieces (see images below). An analysis of macroplastic debris was also conducted at each site during each sample time. Analysis of 2021 samples is currently ongoing in addition to assessing the composition of plastic polymers found in the samples through Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). To learn more about the exciting research within the Microplastics Lab at UMass Boston please contact Dr. Juanita Urban-Rich, Juanita.Urban-Rich@umb.edu , and/or myself at Shannon.Hogan@umb.edu . Funding for this research was provided by ReMAIN Nantucket LLC and the Nantucket Land Council. A map of Nantucket island and the beach sites where intertidal surface sand and seawater were collected. These sites were chosen for their geographic and land-use differences. A sphere (e.g. microbead or nurdle) found in a sample of beach sand. An unidentified microplastic fragment found in a sample of beach sand. Potential sources include buoy foam, paint chip, and hard fragment from piece of macroplastic. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms