- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 Joy, delivered in four languages -  UMass Boston Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Joy, delivered in four languages 12/22/2021 |
    Gray Milkowski Paola Dionisio isn’t quite sure what her title at work is. Image By: Janina Seibel “ My true passion is helping people – that’s just my thing. ” She’s between either “Santa” or “elf.” “People write letters to Santa, and I read them, so does that mean that I’m Santa or an elf?” she asks, chuckling. Dionisio, a third-year Exercise Health Science student, is part of Globe Santa , a 66-year-old program led by the Boston Globe Foundation that “exists solely to deliver joy to local children.” Thousands of children and families in need send letters to “Santa,” and Dionisio and her coworkers read them and make sure gifts are delivered in return, hoping to make the holidays a little more special. This was Dionisio’s first year with the program, which she joined because of a unique Santa-like skill: she is quadrilingual. She speaks English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French, which allows her to translate letters from the many people in the Greater Boston area whose first language isn’t English, ensuring that language doesn’t prohibit Santa from getting down the chimney. Originally from Weymouth, she started with the program in October (yes, Santa does get letters in October, she says), and so far, has had a wonderful experience. “I love it,” Dionisio says. “I feel very purposeful … my true passion is helping people – that’s just my thing.” Most of the letters she opens are filled with gratitude and describe how the gift will make a real difference for their holiday. Some people even send small gifts along with their letters to Santa as a thank you. A few days prior to being interviewed, Dionisio received a small Haitian flag from a woman whose child has written to Globe Santa for years. Her colleagues have received keychains in the past, and other small tokens of gratitude. “It’s a relationship that we build with these people,” she says. Sometimes the letters are spirit-raisers. Dionisio says that the best ones are from children who hand write the letters themselves, and favorites are the ones that come with hand-drawn festive images. “We hang them on the wall of the office,” she says, smiling. Others are more emotional, many from single mothers and fathers who are living on a low income, describing how they are stretched thin between working, paying the bills, and taking care of their children. Dionisio described reading one letter from a grandmother who was taking care of her grandchildren, but too old to work. Another came from a family of a little boy with a lung condition, who said this might be his last Christmas. “It’s heartbreaking … a lot of people pour out a lot,” she says. But Dionisio and her team move forward, working to deliver a gift to each child or family that wrote to Globe Santa this year. The Randolph office, one of two intake locations, received approximately 17,000 letters. It’s a volume of work that’s helped her get just a little closer to picking the right title, albeit one without milk and cookies. “I think I’m more of an elf.” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms