FERPA Guidelines - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Faculty & Staff FERPA Guidelines Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff FERPA Guidelines Forms Policy Reference Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu FERPA Guidelines for Faculty & Staff The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) is a federal law enacted in 1974 to protect the privacy of student education records. It is incumbent upon all employees of the university to protect educational records, be it in files, documents, spreadsheets, and other materials (paper or digital) containing information related to a student. These guidelines are to help you know what you can and cannot disclose to parents and others about a student’s record. It does not mean you can’t speak with a parent and use general terms to discuss university rules and guidelines. You just can’t give out specific details without permission. Often times, the general information is enough to help the person asking the questions. Information that is protected by FERPA: Education records include (but are not limited to) student names in conjunction with: 1. Grades or GPA (FERPA) 2. Test scores or grades 3. Student course enrollment or schedules and Class lists (FERPA) 4. Disciplinary records (FERPA) 5. Student financial records (FERPA, and Personally Identifiable Information PII) 6. Payroll records for employees who are employed as a direct result of their status as students (e.g. work study, assistantships, resident assistants) 7. Student identification number (FERPA) 8. Ethnicity, race, or religious affiliation (FERPA and PII) 9. Gender (FERPA, PII) 10. Nationality (FERPA, PII) 11. Social security number or ID numbers(FERPA, PII) You must not disclose any of the above information without the written consent of the student. Directory information is public information and can be made public. UMass Boston has determined the following to be directory information: Name Place of Birth Dates of Attendance at UMass Major Participation in sports or recognized university activities Degrees, Awards, certificates Student Employment status Most Recent previous educational institution EMAIL ADDRESS IS NOT DIRECTORY INFORMATION AND WE DO NOT RELEASE IT. Some FERPA “Danger Zones”: 1. Do not circulate, post, or project on a screen a class list with student names and ID numbers, or home address 2. Do not discuss a student’s progress or grades with anyone other than the student without permission of the student (ex: parents) You can speak in general terms about the polices of your class or the university. 3. Do not leave graded papers or exams in a stack or someplace for students to pick them up. 4. Never require students to put their social security number or ID on any paper. 5. Never disclose information about a student without the written consent of the student. 6. Do not post grades using an identifying information or partial identification. “When in doubt, don’t give it out” Please refer to our full FERPA Guidelines on our website If you have any questions please contact our office Registrar@umb.edu Solomon Amendment Explained Solomon Amendment Solomon Amendment is a federal law that allows military recruiters to access some address, biographical and academic program information on students age 17 and older. The Department of Education has determined the Solomon Amendment supersedes most elements of FERPA. An institution is therefore obligated to release data included in the list of “student recruiting information,” which may or may not match University of Massachusetts Boston FERPA directory information list. However, if the student has submitted a Privacy Request Form to the Registrar's Office, to restrict the release of their directory information, then no information from the student's education record will be released under the Solomon Amendment. "Student Recruitment Information" or "Solomon Information" as defined by the Solomon Amendment: Name Address Telephone (not specific if local or permanent) Student Email address Age and date of birth Place of birth Level of education Academic major Degrees received Educational institution in which the student was most recently enrolled Procedure for releasing information to military recruiter: Under the Solomon amendment, information will be released for military recruitment purposes only. The military recruiters may request student recruitment information once each semester within the six branches of the service: Army: Army, Army Reserve, Army National Guard Navy: Navy, Navy Reserve Marine Corps: Marine Corps, Marine Corps Reserve Air Force: Air Force, Air Force Reserve, Air Force National Guard Coast Guard: Coast Guard, Coast Guard Reserve The request should be submitted via email clearly identifying the unit of service requesting the student recruitment information. The request should list what student recruitment information is being requested. The request should specify whether the information needed is for the current or previous semester. All responses to Solomon Amendment requests for information will be reviewed by the Registrar's office. Requesters can expect a response in 5-10 business days. Military Recruiters are to submit their Solomon requests via email to mike.pollard@umb.edu Office of the Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 617.287.6200 registrar@umb.edu 617.287.6242 Registrar Records Area get.records@umb.edu Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms