Current Projects - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Technovation Current Projects Menu menu Menu About The Technovator Completed Projects Current Projects Ipads In The Classroom Technovate With Us Current Projects iPad in the Classroom 2.0: For Spring 2022 IT is relaunching the iPad in the classroom program. Details can be found on the iPad in the Classroom 2.0 Page . FrameVR: FrameVR is a 3D collaboration and creation tool. You can use it as a standalone gallery or an immersive space with others.  The software is currently in Beta with free plans available. You can view some of our projects the Technovation Team has worked on below. Pronto : Pronto is an instant messaging tool that is integrated with Blackboard. It allows you and your students to communicate in chat discussion that can be threaded and personal messages. Learn more about Pronto . Mirroring360 :  Mirroring360 is now available in all our classrooms and allows faculty/staff to share mobile devices including iPads/iPhones/Surfaces to wirelessly cast to the AV system in the classroom Virtual Reality in the Classroom : UMass Boston has invested in 10 Lenovo VR Headsets and purchased software called VR Expeditions 2.0 to have virtual field trips. Along with a list of all expeditions. Feel free to drop in and try out the VR headsets. Augmented Reality in the Classroom : Augmented Reality is here for the iPads and iPad carts.  We are excited to announce the Healey Library has subscribed to a wonderful AR Application for Biology/Nursing/EHS called Visible Body Atlas . Along with Visible Body there are a number of other AR Applications to try out including Civilisations AR, Froggapedia, and you can even make your own AR Object with Reality Composer. Oxford Medical Sim : The Center for Clinical Education and Research (CCER) has partnered with the Technovator to assist in bringing Virtual Reality Nursing Simulation to campus. The CCER has two Occulus Rift S VR Headsets with Oxford Medical Sim (OMS) installed. We are currently looking at ways to leverage this technology to further enhance the student learning and simulation experience. Visible Biology: Currently evaluating Visible Biology available from the Healey Library Catalog . Visible Biology is visual guide to biological concepts and processes. Learn and teach biology in immersive 3D. Use simple controls to engage with interactive simulations. Study 3D models from multiple perspectives. Please provide feedback on this trial resource! Trial ends 12/15/2021. FrameVR - Krystal Campbell Scholarship/Boston Marathon FrameVR - 2021 Beacon Student Leadership Awards FrameVR - 2021 UMB Enclosed Technovator @ The Taylor Center, UMass Boston 3rd Floor of Wheatley, Room 133 technovation@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms