Annual $50K Sustainability Case Competition - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Annual $50K Sustainability Case Competition Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Business & Management UMass Business Students Make Top Three in Annual $50K Sustainability Case Competition 12/11/2023 |
    College of Management The 2nd annual Questrom $50K Sustainability Case Competition was a success! More than 70 teams from 24 universities from the East coast participated. UMass Boston was one of the three finalist teams alongside Boston University and American University. Congratulations to Boston University who took first place. Every year, the $50K Sustainability Case Competition challenges teams with two cases. For the first case study, teams had to produce a strategy to quantify and communicate the monetary value of upcycling for California company Rewilder. The second case study tasked the team with producing a strategy using circularity that would help L.L.Bean improve its environmental footprint and attract new customers. Five dedicated College of Management students developed innovative ways for L.L. Bean to increase and improve their sustainability efforts. The team was co-lead by Dhruv Naik and Walter Valdivieso, both of whom participated last year. Thanks to faculty recommendations they were joined by Venkata Sai Sudharshan Baswa, Emma (Yuxiao) Xing (邢宇潇) , and Damon Borgia. With mentorship from Benyamin Lichtenstein, Associate Professor of Entrepreneurship and Management at UMass Boston, the team made their pitch to three panels of corporate professionals and venture capitalists. The team responded effectively to judges’ questions, and kept improving their concepts all the way to the finals. In 2022, the team didn’t proceed past the first round, but Dhruv and Walter were convinced they could get to the finals. “When they approached me this year I was supportive, but I honestly did not think they could get so far given the stiff competition,” said Professor Benyamin Lichtenstein. “Working on their own, outside of class, they came up with a marvelous and insightful pitch.  I couldn’t be more proud.” Finalist Yuxiao Xing representing UMass Boston said, “It was not only an enriching experience delving into real-world sustainability challenges but also a journey I personally have always wanted to embark on to contribute my part to environmental preservation.” Professor Benyamin Lichtenstein plans to support the team through a consultation with L.L.Bean, and the implementation of one or more of their concepts. Overall, this accomplishment speaks to the growth of the College of Management, its increasing reputation, as well as the vibrancy of Entrepreneurship at UMass Boston. Congratulations again to the UMass Boston College of Management team finalists. ABOUT UMASS BOSTON COLLEGE OF MANAGEMENT As Boston's only public accredited business school, the College of Management is dedicated to educating the region’s next generation of business and community leaders. Recognized for its first-rate faculty and diverse, high-achieving student body, the College offers exceptional learning experiences in collaboration with local businesses. For more information, visit busines.umb.edu and connect with us on LinkedIn . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms