Helpful Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Training & Classroom Support AV Services & Classroom Support Helpful Resources Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Student Online Learning Hub AV Services & Classroom Support Teaching with Technology Tools Technology Enhanced Classrooms Mirroring 360 Zoom Video Conferencing Getting Started With Zoom Helpful Resources Zoom For Students Secure Your Zoom Meeting Zoom Accessibility Echo360 Facilities P3 Presentation Room 2 TV Studio Equipment Reservation Services Staff UMass Boston TV Hours Location Badges Test Scanning Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology How To Guides & FAQs Zoom Video Tutorials Zoom Help Center and Knowledge Base Learn How to Launch Zoom Via Blackboard Frequently Asked Questions by our Faculty and Staff Zoom Users Zoom "How To" Guides Scheduling Breakout Rooms Scheduling a Zoom Meeting / Recurring Meetings via the Web Breakout Rooms Scheduling a Zoom Meeting / Recurring Meetings via Blackboard Pre-Assign Breakout Rooms Scheduling Virtual Office Hours Zoom Whiteboard Polling and Quizzes User Guide Setting up Polling/Advanced Polling for Single and Recurring Meetings Setting up Polling/Advanced Polling for Single and Recurring Meetings Setting up a Quiz for Single and Recurring Meetings Log Into Zoom App With SSO Log in Using UMB Credentials Editing Meetings Editing Meetings Attendance and Reports Attendance on Zoom My Video Camera Is Not Working : Troubleshooting tips for if your camera is not showing in ZOOM. Where can I find the Dial-in Numbers for my ZOOM Meeting? You can find the dial-in numbers when you copy and share the meeting invitation. What is the difference between Host and Co-Host? Here are the differences between Host and Co-Host controls. Is there a feature that allows unique IDs for each participant (this will be helpful in the event that the uninvited guests obtain the password the same way they obtained the meeting link)? Identify Guest Participants Is there a feature to lock down the meeting to prevent the entry of new guests during the meeting? You can lock your meeting once all your participants have joined How can I make sure that participants can hear the audio when showing a Video through ZOOM? When selecting Screen Share, make sure that the “Share Computer Sound” option is also checked. How can I mute 100+ students during my ZOOM Meeting? While in your ZOOM Meeting, you are able to toggle a Mute All button in your Manage Participants Window . How can my students raise their hands to ask a question? There is a Raise Hand feature that your students can use while in the meeting. You will just need to make sure the feature is turned on . Can I allow students to record the ZOOM Meetings? Instructions for how you will need to assign recording privileges to the students within the ZOOM Meeting can be found on the Zoom Help Center . Please scroll down to the section "Assigning Recording Privileges to a Participant". For another option, we have just added cloud recording due to recent demand. As the host, you could record your meetings to the cloud, and then send a link of the meeting to your students once the meeting has finished processing. How can I update Zoom? Directions for updating Zoom to the latest version Classroom Technology and AV Services Healey Library Lower Level IT-ClassTech@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms