Student Guidance - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Provost's Office Academic Integrity Student Guidance Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Academic Integrity Academic Work Academic Integrity Policy Types of Academic Integrity Errors Faculty Guidance Student Guidance Academic Quality Assessment & Development (AQUAD) Annual Faculty Report (AFR) Centers & Institutes Central Business Unit Contact Credit Hour Policy Department Chairs & Administrators Forms & Policies Intercampus Programs Master Academic Calendar Meet the Provost Meet the Dean of Faculty Provost's Staff Student Spotlight on Academic Affairs Student Guidance This section is for students so they can better understand academic integrity principles and practices. Use this page as a guide to avoid errors and issues in academic work. Student role in academic integrity Students are expected to familiarize themselves with UMass Boston's Academic Honesty Policy, which covers academic integrity in detail. This includes knowing what constitutes plagiarism, cheating, and other forms of academic dishonesty. Students must also apply principles of honesty and fairness in all their academic activities, including properly citing sources, doing their own work on assignments and exams, and avoiding any form of deception. Student responsibilities in academic integrity To avoid any errors in academic integrity, students should: Pay close attention to assignment and exam instructions. Consider your possible action in light of these questions (if your answer is “no” to any of these questions, don’t do it): Is what I’m thinking of doing honest, fair, respectful, responsible, and trustworthy? Is what I’m thinking of doing allowed by the specific assignment or exam instructions? If my instructor were standing right here watching me, would I still do this? Be aware of human tendencies to rationalize behaviors by saying things like, “Well, everyone else is probably doing it,” or “It’s not that big of a deal.” Remember that, in the long run, one grade on one exam is not worth compromising your own integrity. If you’re uncertain about how to maintain academic integrity in specific situations, seek guidance from faculty or your academic advisors. Student Resources Writing Center Center for Academic Excellence As a student, what happens when an alleged academic integrity issue is observed? Step 1 After an alleged academic integrity error happens, the first step is notifying the student. The faculty member who witnessed the alleged incident has to inform the student of the suspected academic dishonesty issue(s) in writing, within ten days of the incident. This communication will outline the suspected violation, an offer to meet with the student, the proposed sanction, and any university-recommended sanctions. Undergraduate-related cases are copied to the faculty member’s a) Department Chair and b) Associate Vice Provost (AVP) for Undergraduate Studies. Graduate-related cases are copied to the faculty member’s a) Graduate Program Director and b) AVP for Graduate Education. Step 2 After receiving written notification of the alleged incident, the student has ten business days to meet with the faculty member, in person or online. After the meeting, or once the ten days have passed, the faculty member can impose the sanction or rescind the sanction. Any action taken will be submitted in writing to the student and all relevant parties. If the incident is rescinded, the case is removed from the student’s record. Step 3 If the faculty member recommends a sanction, the case is escalated to the appropriate Associate Vice Provost. The AVP has ten business days to review the case and may request to meet with the student during this period. The appropriate AVP will notify the student and relevant parties in writing of the decision and sanction(s) and provide steps for the appeal process, should the student wish to appeal. Step 4 The student has ten business days to appeal the sanctions from either the faculty member and/or the AVP. The Provost’s Office is responsible for convening and scheduling an appeals panel for students who choose to appeal their case. The Provost’s Office provides the appeal decision to the student in writing . Appeal Process The Associate Provost will contact the student in writing confirming an appeal has been requested. The Associate Provost communicates with the student to confirm the date and time of the hearing (one hour by Zoom, not recorded). They will also make an appointment to review and orient the student to their role and the process of the hearing meeting before the hearing. The student can bring an advisor/supporter to the hearing, but the advisor cannot speak during the hearing. All participants, including the hearing committee, faculty, and the student, will receive the same documents, which are posted in Maxient. The Discipline & Grievance Committee has ten business days to submit a recommendation in writing to the Provost. The Provost has five business days to submit a decision to the student and the decision is final. Please note: The attendees include three faculty from the Discipline & Grievance Committee and two student volunteers, all of whom have no conflicts of interest. The Associate Provost screens these individuals. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms