Support Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Support Resources Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Cultural Collaborative Immigrant Student Programs Multicultural Coalition Support Resources Undocumentedsupport Campus Ministry Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Support Resources for the UMass Boston Community At the University of Massachusetts Boston, everyone deserves to be safe, supported, and respected. All of us—students, faculty, staff, and other members of the university community—can achieve to our utmost only in a safe, healthy, and inclusive environment. In that spirit of inclusivity, we have developed a list of resources for individuals who are impacted by the actions of our current federal government. You should know that we aim to represent all viewpoints, and we ask that you submit relevant items to our staff in the Student Affairs Office via email— SASuppRes@umb.edu —so that we can continue to maintain a complete list of such resources. Student Affairs Resources Other Campus Resources Off Campus Resources DACA Student Resources Know Your Rights LGBTQ Community Resources Books and Articles Student Affairs Resources The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs provides leadership for many care, connection, and student success areas on campus. This office is a non confidential resource. When you travel abroad and you are not permitted to return to the United States, contact Public Safety at 617.287.1212. Public Safety is available for response 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The University Health Services Counseling Center —available to students, faculty, and staff—offers counseling appointments and walk-in emergency services to students. Visit the center on the second floor of the Quinn Administration Building, or call 617.287.5690. The Counseling Center is a confidential resource. The Interfaith Campus Ministry is located on the third floor of McCormack Hall, off the Ryan Lounge. The Interfaith Center Sanctuary is open Monday through Friday from 9:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. The Prayer Space is open 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Juma Prayer is observed Fridays at 1. Call 617.287.5938 or 617.287.5939.  The Interfaith Campus Ministry is a confidential resource. The Women’s Center has office hours in Suite 3100 of the Campus Center. The aim of the Queer Student Center (also known as the QSC, or "The Q") is to facilitate the educational and social development of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning and queer (LGBTQQ) UMass Boston populations. Other Campus Resources The Office of Global Programs provides counseling and information for international students and others with concerns related to immigration. The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion can provide referrals to students. Call 617.287.4818. Learn about your privacy rights as a student, including your right to withhold access to directory information (i.e., name, place of birth, major field of study, dates of attendance, degrees and awards conferred) from third parties. Undergraduate Admissions Undocumented & DACA Students page The Student Immigrant Movement (SIM) is a nonprofit organization that organizes undocumented students in Massachusetts. To be connected to UMass Boston's SIM chapter, contact Loan Dao . The International Student and Scholar Office serves as the institution’s resource for all immigration matters and visa benefits for UMass Boston employees, and students and scholars (in student and scholar visa classifications). This office is your principal liaison to the U.S. government agencies that oversee your stay in the United States. They provide counsel to UMass Boston–sponsored visa holders through drop-in advising sessions, scheduled workshops, and information seminars, helping to ensure that your principal focus is your academics and/or research activities, and allowing you to make valuable contributions to your community during your stay in Boston. You can reach an ISSO advisor by calling 617.287.5586 or by emailing isss@umb.edu . The International Travel Office at UMass Boston is a strong advocate of international education and programs, of international research activities and collaborations, and of international service-learning opportunities that support student learning and professional development while strengthening faculty and staff scholarship and professional growth. The university is also aware that the potential risks related to international travel are varied, and at times can be life-threatening Additional Support for Faculty and Staff ComPsych® provides faculty and staff with confidential support, resources, and information to help with personal and work-life concerns. Call 844.393.4983, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week; or visit www.guidanceresources.com and on the register tab enter “UMASS” before following the on-screen instructions. Ombuds Services is a confidential resource for any UMass Boston community member experiencing a university-related problem, conflict, or concern. The Ombudsperson can help you think through complex issues, understand your options, and consider next steps. Where appropriate the Ombuds can provide practical assistance toward a resolution. As a confidential, informal, impartial, and independent third party, the Ombuds is unbiased and "off-the-record." Call 617-506-9449 or email ombuds@umb.edu to schedule a phone, Zoom, or in-person appointment. Off Campus Resources MA Attorney General’s Hotline: 800.994.3228. Any Massachusetts resident who has witnessed or experienced bias-motivated threats, harassment, or violence may use this hotline to report the incident. The Muslim Justice League provides free legal representation for people contacted by the FBI or Joint Counterterrorism Taskforce. They also provide Know Your Rights training. Anti-Defamation League fights antisemitism and other forms of bigotry; defends democratic ideals and protects civil rights; and provides advocacy and reporting/tracking of hate incidents of any kind. Muslim Wellness Foundation Immigrant Legal Resource Center (ILRC) works with and educates immigrants, community organizations, and the legal sector to continue building a democratic society that values diversity and the rights of all people. U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services (USCIS) American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) Brookings Institute Center for American Progress Immigrants Rising Know Your Rights Know Your Rights handout from PAIR (Political Asylum Immigration Representation) Red Card (Resource for Undocumented Individuals) What to do if stopped by police, Immigration, or the FBI DACA and Your Workplace Rights What to do when you encounter law enforcement at airports and other ports of entry Border Agent Search of Electronic Devices LGBTQ Community Resources GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) is a New England–based legal rights and general advocacy resource. Contact for information, assistance, and referrals for issues ranging from getting your school to take a bully seriously to changing your ID and other documents to accurately reflect your gender. The Trevor Project It Gets Better Project The National Center for Transgender Equality PFLAG Boston Alliance of Gay Lesbian Bisexual Transgender Youth Bisexual Resource Center Sidney Borum, Jr. Health Center Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) Greater Boston PFLAG Books and Articles Resist Advocate Connect Educate for Justice maintains a curated list of popular articles, videos, and other Web resources related to racism and anti-racism. Federation for Children with Special Needs UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms