About Us - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Housing & Dining On Campus About Us Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining On Campus About Us Current Residents Floor Plans Room Rates Future Residents Housing FAQs Housing Payment Information Resident Assistant Resident Health Requirements Roommate Resources Spend Your Summer At Umass Boston Summer Conference Housing Meal Plans Off Campus Policies & Forms Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students About Us Mission The Office of Housing and Residential Life (OHRL) provides communities designed to promote all residents’ personal, interpersonal, and academic success. We strive to create supportive and engaging environments that celebrate differences and encourage our students to become engaged and responsible community members. We cultivate communities grounded in relationships that encourage self-awareness and embrace all expression of identities. Values Housing and Residential Life is committed to: Integrity & Transparency We hold each other accountable and build trust through our interactions. We consult with our stakeholders and provide context to our decisions. Continuous Improvement We strive to be a learning organization and solicit feedback. We take the time to reflect on our successes and areas for improvement and act to improve the experience of our residents. Teamwork & Collaboration We understand that input from stakeholders improves our decision-making. We strive to work efficiently. We believe that working as a team improves our effectiveness. Diversity & Inclusion Our practices, policies, and decisions are guided by a dedication to provide a welcoming community. We believe that inclusive practices enhance the health and wellbeing of our residents. Student Development & Success We hold student academic success as a top priority. We value innovation in delivering programs and leadership opportunities for residents. We encourage residents to actively participate in the university and the local community. We believe in positivity and a growth mindset. Environmental Stewardship & Sustainability Our facilities and community initiatives reflect our dedication to sustainability. We consider the global impact in our practices and decisions. Inclusivity Statement The Office of Housing and Residential Life (OHRL) recognizes, welcomes and affirms the various identities our residential students may hold. We are committed to providing a challenging and supportive living and learning environment that encourages residents in their exploration and reflection on race, color, creed, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, age, sex, ancestry, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, and status as a veteran. Through the intentional creation of respectful communities, and education geared towards social justice, we aim to create a home for all residential students where they feel valued, heard, and respected. OHRL upholds the University’s non-discrimination policy and strictly prohibits acts of discrimination and discriminatory harassment. Connect with Housing on Social Media Follow the Office of Housing and Residential Life on Instagram Like the Office of Housing and Residential Life on Facebook Follow our RAs on Instagram Contact On-Campus Housing Office of Housing and Residential Life Residence Hall East, 1st Floor 240 Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA 02125 Hours: M-F 9am-5pm 617.287.6011 housing@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms