- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Sustainable Solutions Lab, Labor Resource Center A Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Sustainable Solutions Lab, Labor Resource Center Announce Faculty Funding Opportunities 01/06/2020 |
    Colleen Locke SSL Offering Two $7,500 Grants; LRC Offering Up to $3,000 Image By: Lisa Link Two of UMass Boston’s centers are offering opportunities for research funding for faculty members who are focused on climate change or labor-related themes. The Sustainable Solutions Lab (SSL) has launched a new Seed Grant Program for research projects focused on issues of climate change and social equity. By investing in new projects and then finding ways to support this fledgling research with additional resources and connections, SSL is hoping to foster a community of scholars who are interested in the interconnections between historic and systemic inequities and climate impacts. “This is an opportunity to take a risk and explore interdisciplinary questions in a new way,” said Sustainable Solutions Lab Director Rebecca Herst. “With the near constant deluge of climate disasters, issues of climate justice are increasingly making headlines. At the same time, many gaps remain about how to ensure that our efforts to prepare for and adapt to climate change don’t amplify current inequities. We hope this program will incentivize increased scholarship around this important issue.” These grants are available to both tenure and non-tenure track faculty who are connected to one of the SSL colleges, schools, or institutes: the College of Liberal Arts, the College of Management, the College of Nursing and Health Sciences, the McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies, the School for the Environment, the Institute for Asian American Studies, the Institute for New England Native American Studies, the Mauricio Gaston Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy, and the William Monroe Trotter Institute for the Study of Black History and Culture. Faculty teams of at least two PIs from different schools or colleges are invited to submit proposals. In the inaugural year, there will be two grants of $7,500 each. Proposals should include a budget, a project narrative with a clear connection to climate justice, and a CV of each faculty member who is applying. Visit the Internal Funding Programs page for the project narrative requirements and the list of allowable budget items. Proposals are due March 30 and should be sent to ssl@umb.edu . The UMass Boston Labor Resource Center is offering a limited number of seed grants of up to $3,000 to support faculty research on a broad range of labor-related themes within and outside the United States, including, but not limited to, work and the working class, inequality, poverty, social movements, organizing, and immigration. All UMass Boston faculty are eligible. Along with a short CV, applicants should submit a one-page proposal describing the research project, how the funds will be used, and the potential the research will lead to new proposals for external grants. Proposals are due February 4 and should be sent to laborresourcecenter@umb.edu . About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms