Help - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Library Help Menu menu Menu About Healey Library Course Reserves E-Resources Help Glossary Online Reference Resources Info For Faculty Interlibrary Loan Journals My Library Account Help General Inquiries For questions about library hours, your account, laptops, barcodes, loan periods, overdue book, fines, or any general library questions, contact the Circulation Department at: 617.287.5900 library.circulation@umb.edu For a list of all departments, check the listing of Library Departments . Research Assistance Get help from a librarian via any of the following channels: Ask a Librarian! Search/browse FAQs, or submit a question for a response within 24 hours (Monday-Friday). Call the Reference Desk Call 617.287.5940 and leave a message for the Reference Desk (M-F, 9am-5pm) . Chat with a Librarian 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, real-time chat support provided by UMass Boston librarians and other librarians on college campuses throughout the world. Send a Text Send a text to: 617.826.9978. A UMass Boston reference librarian will respond within 24 hours (Monday-Friday). Schedule a Research Consultation with a Reference Librarian. UMass Boston librarians can meet with individuals or groups to help you find and cite articles, books, and more for your papers and projects. Research Tools Research Guides cover a variety of general research topics such as evaluating sources and search strategies. The Online Reference Collection is a great place to find background material for your research. The Library Glossary provides definitions of commonly used library terms. The Plagiarism Prevention and Awareness guide offers tutorials and resources to help learners understand both what plagiarism is and how to avoid committing it. Citation Tools Citing Sources provides links to reliable web sites that guide students through citation styling, academic writing, avoiding plagiarism, etc. Citation Management Tools offers a comparison of different tools. Mendeley is a free tool from Elsevier that allows users to organize, reference, annotate, and share documents Zotero is a free Firefox browser extension that lets you collect, manage, and cite a multitude of resources while surfing the Internet. Related Assistance Academic Support Programs provide tutoring, academic instruction and writing support to students. The Center for Statistical Computing offers workshops and individualized consultations for faculty and graduate students in data science and statistics IT Service Desk helps with issues related to computer hardware, software, printing or the network. IT Training Portal offers workshops for the UMass Boston community. Library Menu About Accessibility Archives Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Databases List E-Resources Give Now Healey Library News Help Info for Faculty InterLibrary Loan My Library Account Research Guides (Search by topic) ScholarWorks (Campus Archives for Faculty Research and Publications) UMBrella Worldcat at UMass Boston (Search libraries worldwide) Healey Library 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 US 617.287.5900 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms