Join - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Join Menu menu Menu About Contact Courses Events Join Sigs Join the Fun Whether you are working, retired, or semi-retired, you can be a part of OLLI.  No previous college experience needed to get involved – just a desire to learn. With OLLI, your life experience is what counts. Why join OLLI? Be part of an organization designed specifically to meet your educational interests. Expand understanding of arts, humanities, science, and current events. Explore the world through guided travel experiences. Build friendships with OLLI members. Add life to your years by staying active and exercising your mind! Learn, explore, connect, and enjoy . . . a world of learning awaits you through OLLI. OLLI at UMass Boston offers 3 membership options to fit every pocket book and level of interest. Financial Assistance . Thanks to the generosity of donors, a limited number of scholarships are available. To learn more about apply for a membership fee scholarship, please email the OLLI Office. Membership Categories, Fees, and Benefits Membership Form Full/Unlimited Membership This provides the fullest access to all that OLLI offers.  As a Full member, you may take courses, OLLI Talks and Walking Tours at no additional charge. You may join Shared Interest Groups, attend Theatre productions at special OLLI rates, traveling the US and the world with OLLI members at group rates, learn or brush up on foreign languages via Mango Languages, and take advantage of student rates at various cultural institutions and business establishments – all for an annual fee of $245. OLLI Carte Membership OLLI Carte members enjoy all OLLI social activities, including participation in Shared Interest Groups, traveling the US and the world with OLLI members at group rates, learn or brush up on foreign languages via Mango Languages, and may take as many OLLI Talks and Walking Tours as they wish as part of their $120 annual membership fee. They may also take OLLI Courses for an additional $40 per course. This membership type is best for those who plan to take no more than 3 courses in a year. General Membership This membership is geared to those who don’t want to take courses but who want to join the OLLI social activities, including Shared Interest Groups, traveling the US and the world with OLLI members at group rates, all for an annual fee of $65.  General members may also attend OLLI Talks and Walking Tours for a $15 fee per event. This membership option is not eligible to take courses. Not Ready to Join? Check out our free Summer and Winter programs to get a taste of our OLLI courses and learn more about OLLI. Contact the OLLI Office to get your questions answered. Helpful Links OLLI's History Explore OLLI's online registration portal UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms