Online Reference Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Library Help Online Reference Resources Menu menu Menu About Healey Library Course Reserves E-Resources Help Glossary Online Reference Resources Info For Faculty Interlibrary Loan Journals My Library Account Online Reference Resources General Reference Works Britannica Online Britannica Online is a general encyclopedia covering all subjects. It also includes current events journal articles, selected and reviewed web links, a dictionary, a thesaurus, and timelines with images and links. Credo Reference Credo Reference provides access to a broad variety of reference sources from dictionaries to encyclopedias covering topics from the arts to the sciences. It has an image collection, maps, customizable data, and audio pronunciation files. You can search the whole collection or a specific subject area. Oxford English Dictionary (OED) The Oxford English Dictionary is the accepted authority on the evolution of the English language over the last millennium. It is an unsurpassed guide to the meaning, history, and pronunciation of over half a million words, both present and past. It traces the usage of words through 2.5 million quotations from a wide range of international English language sources, from classic literature and specialist periodicals to film scripts and cookery books. Specialized Reference Works American Jurisprudence American Jurisprudence 2d (Am Jur 2d) is available through the Nexis Uni database. It is an encyclopedia that provides summary and analysis of all fields of U.S. state and federal law. It contains many citations to cases, statutes, and law review articles. It also includes analysis of the spirit and intent of the courts in construing the law, and legislative intent in enacting and amending the law. Cambridge Companions Online Online access to the complete Cambridge Companion series. The Companions cover the fields of literature, classics, philosophy, religion, and cultural studies. Each Companion includes essays devoted to a particular person or subject such as Freud, Hemingway, modern Latin American culture, and the African American novel. CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics Contains physical constants and formulas, properties of elements and organic and inorganic compounds, and other chemical data. It is also available in a print edition. International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences An in-depth and scholarly encyclopedia covering all branches of the social and behavioral sciences. Oxford Art Online A comprehensive art reference collection that covers all the visual arts from prehistory to the 1990s. Through the Oxford Art Online gateway, you can search the Grove Art Online encyclopedia, the Encyclopedia of Aesthetics, the Oxford Companion to Western Art, and the Concise Oxford Dictionary of Art Terms together or individually. There are also links to images, related content and art timelines. Only five users at a time can access Oxford Art Online. Oxford Music Online Through the Oxford Music Online gateway, you can search as a group or by individual title, the Grove Music Online, which includes the full text of The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, The New Grove Dictionary of Opera and The New Grove Dictionary of Jazz, as well as the Oxford Dictionary of Music and the Oxford Companion to Music. Together these works form a comprehensive music reference site where you can find information on composers, musical styles, and major musical works. Only five users at a time can access Oxford Music Online. Sage Knowledge SAGE Knowledge is the ultimate social sciences digital library for students, researchers, and faculty. With more than 2,500 titles, it includes an expansive range of SAGE eBook and eReference content, including scholarly monographs, reference works, handbooks, series, professional development titles, and more. Library Menu About Accessibility Archives Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Databases List E-Resources Give Now Healey Library News Help Info for Faculty InterLibrary Loan My Library Account Research Guides (Search by topic) ScholarWorks (Campus Archives for Faculty Research and Publications) UMBrella Worldcat at UMass Boston (Search libraries worldwide) Healey Library 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 US 617.287.5900 Connect Ask a Librarian Email your question Call 617.287.5940 Chat with a Librarian Text 617.826.9978 Research Consultation Visit the Reference Desk Frequently Asked Questions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms