Paperwork - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students Student Employment Paperwork Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment Community Service Conduct Contact Disciplinary Procedures Eligibility Federal Work Study Hiring Off Campus Work Study Paperwork Resources For Employers Rest Periods Wage Guidelines University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Required Paperwork for Students Before a student may be placed on payroll for a position through the university student employment programs, certain paperwork must be completed. Failure to complete this paperwork will result in a delay in both your start date and your eligibility to be paid. SES encourages all students to complete their paperwork as soon as they have accepted a position through the Institutional (CC) or FWS Programs. It is critical that you do not begin working until all your paperwork has been completed. Violation of this rule may result in loss of wages, delayed payment of your earned wages, and possible termination from the student employment program. I-9 (Employment Eligibility Verification) Federal regulations require that every employer must verify an employee's eligibility to work in the United States of America through the Employment Eligibility Verification form, commonly referred to as the I 9. Staff must verify both the student's identity and the student's eligibility to work. In order to do this, certain documents must be provided, in person, to a SES staff member. Original documents must be presented to the staff member, who will review and return them. Photocopies are not allowed. The most common documents used to verify the student's identity are a driver's license or a UMass student ID, while the most common documents to verify a student's eligibility to work are a Social Security card or a U.S. birth certificate. You are required to bring in documentation of both your identity and eligibility to work, thus two documents are required. If you have a valid U.S. passport or Permanent Resident Card, it may be used to verify both your identity and your eligibility to work. If the passport is not a United States Passport, it must have an I-551 stamp or be accompanied by the I-94 and I-20 forms, which verify the expiration of your eligibility. IMPORTANT: It is a violation of federal law for an employee to begin working more than three days before the completion of the I-9 Employment Eligibility Verification form.  Any hours spent by a student at the workplace before an I-9 is completed will be considered volunteer time. Employment eligibility may be revoked for violation of this policy. W-4/M-4 (Tax Withholding Allowances) All student earnings are taxable. Thus, all student employees must complete the proper documentation to have taxes withheld from their paycheck. The federal form is referred to as the Federal Form W-4: Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate. The state form is referred to as Form M-4: Massachusetts Employee's Withholding Exemption Certificate. If a student is exempt from paying taxes, the form may be completed so that no tax is withheld. In order to qualify for exempt status on the federal form, you must certify that last year you had a right to a refund of ALL federal income tax withheld because you had NO tax liability, AND that this year you expect a refund of ALL federal income tax withheld because you expect to have NO tax liability. (At the state level, exemption is based on being a full-time student whose estimated earnings will not exceed $8,000.) If you do not qualify for Exempt status, you must define the number of allowances upon which your withholdings will be based. The form asks specific questions and provides worksheets to assist you in completing this information. (Due to tax treaties, all International students must complete the tax holding information. Students will receive an email from Sprintax Calculus with instructions on how to submit the required documentation.) The forms are valid until the point that any information on it ceases to be correct. Thus, because the questions on the W-4 surrounding Exempt status are year specific, you will need to complete a new W-4 every year if you claim exempt. SES will use a standard of zero allowances for any student who fails to complete a W-4 or M-4. Student Personnel Action Form (EPAF) The Student Personnel Action Form, commonly referred to as the EPAF, is the document that actually places you on to the UMass Boston payroll. It defines the job you will hold, the hourly rate you will be paid, the length of time you will hold the position, and the maximum amount you may earn before your employment is terminated. The EPAF is completed by the employer. An EPAF must be completed for every job that you hold through the Institutional (CC) and/or FWS Programs. EPAFs are valid for no more than one fiscal year for Federal Work Study students. Thus, if you are continuing in a position, new paperwork will need to be completed each June. As your wages will be charged directly to a department account, your EPAF must be signed by the appropriate authorized departmental personnel (supervisor/head/account's administrator) before it can be processed. Social Security/OBRA The federal government allows all students who are enrolled at least half-time, are working for the institution where they study, and are not "career" employees (e.g. are not benefited employees) to be exempt from paying Medicare and Social Security taxes. Thus, any student who falls below half-time enrollment will have these taxes deducted from their earnings. As the University of Massachusetts does not participate in the Social Security Program, an alternate retirement plan (OBRA) will be deducted from the student's earnings in place of Social Security. During the summer, all students are considered to be enrolled less than half-time, unless they provide specific documentation to Student Payroll to demonstrate otherwise. (The required documentation is available in both SES and Student Payroll, as are more detailed explanations about the program.) Student Payroll will mail information regarding the alternate retirement plan to all students who are required to participate. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms