Nursing - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Nursing Home The Manning College Departments & Centers Nursing Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Nursing Faculty & Staff Resources for Students Beyond the Classroom Resources for Alumni Exercise & Health Sciences Gerontology Urban Public Health Center for Clinical Education & Research Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Welcome to the Nursing Department Our comprehensive approach to education uniquely positions us to meet very real healthcare needs of our city, state, and nation by educating knowledgeable providers of skilled nursing care, analyzing and creating health policy, and increasing the health of diverse urban populations. Our singularity has made us a model for programs nationwide. Request Info Apply Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing Nursing RN-BS Bachelor of Science Nursing Traditional Bachelor of Science Graduate Programs Nurse Educator Certificate Nursing Post-Master's Certificate Nursing MS Nursing PhD Doctor of Nursing Practice - DNP News Nursing Professor Receives High Honor in Ceremony at the United Nations U.S. News: UMass Boston’s Graduate Programs Among Nation’s Best in 2023 U.S. Rep. Lynch, Chancellor Suárez-Orozco Announce $3M in Funding for Nursing Lab About Our Department Mission: The Mission of the Department of Nursing is to create an inclusive, student-centered learning environment that fosters innovation in research, scholarship, education, and service and prepares graduates to promote health equity and quality as professionals working in complex systems. Vision: To be the premier leader in educating innovative nursing professionals committed to advancing health equity and achieving optimal population health in local, global and urban communities by the development and evaluation of health policies. Values: Integrity, Inclusion, Diversity, Transparency, Transformation, Resilience, Relationships, Accountability, Collaboration, Equity, and Excellence. As the 9th largest nursing school in the country, we are proud to offer the only publicly supported nursing programs in the greater Boston area to graduate a significant number of racially and ethnically diverse baccalaureate, master's, and doctorally-prepared nurses. By choosing us, you will benefit first and foremost from studying with our dedicated faculty, who have distinguished themselves as innovators both in teaching and in multidisciplinary research. Their areas of focus include health disparities, cardiovascular health, health policy, cancer, and obesity prevention. Our faculty provides the very best instruction and learning opportunities to prepare you for future career success. You will also benefit from our affiliations with more than 200 healthcare organizations, through which you can pursue internships and gain essential clinical experience. Our own resources include the Center for Clinical Education and Research, a state-of-the-art facility in which you can learn from simulated clinical experiences. During your time with us, we will guide you to opportunities for scholarships and financial aid, and give you knowledgeable advising as you prepare for your career. When you complete your studies, you will be part of a group of highly sought-after alumni who assume leadership positions in all the Boston area’s world-renowned healthcare facilities. Integrating science, education, practice, and policy to decrease health disparities in populations: a local and global focus. The baccalaureate degree program in nursing/master's degree program in nursing/Doctor of Nursing Practice program and/post-graduate APRN certificate program at the University of Massachusetts Boston is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. Explore Clinical & Internship Placement Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Center for Clinical Education & Research Resources Our Faculty Resources for Students Graduate Students & Assistantships Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing, ABSN Looking to fast track your nursing degree using your pre-existing bachelor's degree? Learn about our ABS-N program Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Contact Us Nursing Department Graduate and Undergraduate Programs Quinn, 1st Floor, Room 0025 Phone: 617.287.7500 Fax: 617.287.7527 Email Nursing Department UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms