- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 UMass Boston Scientists Donate Unused PPE from Lab Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Scientists Donate Unused PPE from Labs 04/07/2020 |
    Elis Mullins As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, health care workers have struggled to persist against the virus through a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) such as masks, gowns, gloves, and eye gear. To help mitigate the shortage, two members of the UMass Boston’s School for the Environment (SFE) collected PPE from their labs, donating it to Boston Medical Center this past Friday. The School for the Environment donated surgical gloves, surgical masks, and laboratory goggles to Boston Medical Center. “ These are unprecedented times that require unprecedented actions. ” Aware of the severe PPE shortages, Helenmary Hotz , the director of academic labs for the SFE reached out to Bob Chen , interim dean for the SFE, seeking permission to donate supplies. “Given that UMass Boston is locked down and on virtual operation, I knew the PPE could be put to better use to potentially save lives,” Hotz said. After Chen’s approval, Hotz joined with Francesco Peri , research engineer and project manager in the SFE, to collect PPE from ten SFE labs. To reduce the chance of outside contamination, Peri and Hotz decided to donate only sealed boxes and full containers of PPE. “We collected and donated approximately 50 boxes of 100-count surgical gloves, four boxes of 100-count surgical masks, and 25 laboratory goggles,” said Peri. “I wore PPE and decontaminated each box individually by wiping it down with isopropanol to prevent any possibility of spreading the virus.” Both Peri and Hotz hope that other UMass Boston labs will follow their example, as Boston’s hospitals are in critical need. “I certainly hope that other labs will be most generous with any PPE or related equipment that is not currently in use,” said Hotz. “These are unprecedented times that require unprecedented actions.” About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms