Counseling Psychology PhD - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Counseling Psychology PhD Home Academics Majors & Programs Counseling Psychology PhD Request Info Loading... Preparing counseling psychologists for advanced careers as scholars and practitioners. Accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of the American Psychological Association since 2015, UMass Boston's PhD in Counseling Psychology prepares doctoral-level professional counseling psychologists for careers as scholars, university faculty, and practitioners. Our scientist-practitioner training model prepares students to: deliver high quality, evidence-based psychological services and interventions employ applied research skills to improve practice and explore social and psychological issues serve as effective instructors and teachers use innovative approaches to solve problems related to educational and mental health care disparities, improve services for underrepresented populations, and employ systems-level change strategies to advance local and global social justice Why Apply to UMass Boston's Counseling Psychology PhD Program? The UMass Boston Counseling Psychology program prepares the next generation of counseling psychology scholars, teachers, and social justice advocates. We believe in the benefits of working with a variety of research methods and theoretical approaches, receiving guidance from multiple mentors, and understanding how to think about human rights and social justice as they apply to local and transnational contexts. Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Test Scores: Effective 2021, GRE scores are no longer required for admission to the PhD program Letters of Recommendation: 3 Writing Sample: Yes Other: Applied master's degree required. We are accepting applications from candidates who will have completed an applied master's program with supervised clinical experience (e.g., Mental Health Counseling, School Psychology, School Counseling, Social Work, and other programs) prior to the Fall admission. Minimum of five social science classes (preferably psychology, human development, and statistics) Completed project or academic paper Statement of purpose: The Statement of Purpose is your opportunity to tell the faculty why you are interested in counseling psychology, to share the reasons why you are applying to UMass Boston in particular, and to describe your training and career goals, as well as how our program may support your progress toward those goals. Many people link their interest to specific faculty expertise as that helps us match applicants to specific faculty for interviews on the interview day. Transcripts Résumé/Curriculum Vitae Interview Deadlines & Cost Deadline: December 1 for fall Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Program Cost Information: Bursar’s Website Licensure Licensure Graduate training at the UMass Boston Counseling Psychology Program will prepare students for taking the EPPP (Examination for Professional Practice in Psychology); however, requirements for sitting for the EPPP vary by state licensing boards. The Counseling Psychology Program has reviewed the licensing requirements for all U.S. jurisdictions to determine eligibility (see below). Please note that not all graduates choose to take the EPPP. U.S. Boards of Psychology in Which Graduates Would Be Eligible to Sit for the EPPP Upon Completion of the Doctoral Program Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia (DC), Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virgin Islands, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming U.S. Boards of Psychology in Which Graduates Would NOT Be Eligible to Sit for the EPPP Upon Completion of the Doctoral Program Without Additional Coursework California: additional coursework in human sexuality; alcohol/chemical dependency detection and treatment; child abuse assessment; spousal/partner abuse assessment, detection, and intervention strategies; aging and long-term care; and suicide risk assessment and intervention is needed. Maine: additional coursework in family or intimate partner violence screening and referral and intervention strategies, including knowledge of community resources, cultural factors, evidence-based risk assessment, and same-gender abuse dynamics is needed. New York: Unable to determine if a graduate is eligible. The doctoral program must be registered by the New York Licensing Department as licensure qualifying or determined by the department to be the substantial equivalent in accordance with the Regulations of the Commissioner. Please contact the New York Office of the Professions for specific details on the licensure requirements. Note: We have many alumni who are licensed in NY but historically this state has had additional requirements. Curriculum The program is designed to take five years of full-time study, including a full-time internship. Students who enter with a master’s degree in counseling or another applied field will have a reduction in required course credits to the extent their master’s level courses match our required courses, however, it is required that students complete a minimum of three years on campus plus internship. The majority of students have completed the program with four years on campus plus one additional year of internship. Foundational Courses (18 Credits) COUNSL 608 - Psychopathology and Diagnosis 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 620 - Life Span Human Development 3 Credit(s) CSP 641 - Cognitive and Affective Foundations 3 Credit(s) CSP 660 - Physiological Bases of Behavior 3 Credit(s) CSP 680 - History & Systems in Counseling and School Psychology 3 Credit(s) CSP 705 - Social and Cultural Psychology 3 Credit(s) Prevention, Assessment, and Intervention Courses (6 Credits) COUNSL 614 - Counseling Theory and Practice I 3 Credit(s) Complete one of the following: COUNSL 613 - Vocational Development and Career Information 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 615 - Counseling Theory and Practice II 3 Credit(s) CSP 706 - Personality Assessment 3 Credit(s) CSP 713 - Advanced Career and Group Theory and Practice 3 Credit(s) CSP 717 - Advanced Theory and Practice in counseling and School Psychology 3 Credit(s) CSP 752 - Health Psychology: Current Theory, Research, and Interventions 3 Credit(s) CSP 780 - Supervision and Training in Psychology 3 Credit(s) CSP 783 - Practicum in Counseling Psychology I 3 Credit(s) CSP 784 - Practicum in Counseling Psychology II: Evidence-Based Practice 3 Credit(s) PSYCLN 727 - Emotion-Focused Psychotherapy 3 Credit(s) SPY G 602 - Standardized Assessment and Report Writing 3 Credit(s) Research Courses (18 Credits) CSP 703 - Research in Counseling and School Psychology 1-6 Credit(s) CSP 704 - Qualitative and Quantitative Research Methods in Counseling and School Psychology 3 Credit(s) CSP 708 - Intermediate Statistics in CSP 3 Credit(s) CSP 770 - Advanced Statistics in Counseling and School Psychology 3 Credit(s) CSP 891 - Dissertation Seminar 3 Credit(s) CSP 899 - Dissertation Research 1-9 Credit(s) Teaching Requirement Course (3 Credits) CSP 782 - Teaching in Counseling and School Psychology 3 Credit(s) Social Justice & Systems Change Courses (12 Credits) CSP 701 - Social Justice in Counseling and School Psychology 3 Credit(s) CSP 702 - Foundations and Ethics in Counseling Psychology 3 Credit(s) CSP 787 - Advanced Practicum III in Counseling and School Psychology 3 Credit(s) CSP 801 - Transnational Social Justice in Counseling and School Psychology 3 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Complete 73 credits from 19 courses including six foundational courses; two prevention, assessment, and intervention courses; six research courses; one teaching requirement course; and four social justice and systems change courses. Students who enter with a master’s degree in counseling or a related field will have a reduction in required course credits to the extent their master’s level courses match our required courses. Capstone: Students starting with a Bachelor’s degree must complete a capstone project based on CSP 704 and 708 consisting of a literature review paper on a topic approved by the faculty advisor. Doctoral candidacy: Completion of a qualifying paper, a critical and synthetic review of a focused body of literature in the area in which the student plans to complete the dissertation. Dissertation: Compose and defend a research project (quantitative or qualitative) that makes a substantive contribution to the knowledge base in counseling psychology or school psychology. It is usually completed by the end of the fourth year, although students may choose to complete the dissertation during or following the internship year. Practicum: Participate in two semesters of practicum. Internship: Complete one full-year of Internship. During the fourth or fifth year after having met all course requirements. Teaching: Co-teach at least one semester. Research Team: Participate on at least one faculty-student research team for five semesters. En Route Master’s Degree: Students may, with the approval of the program director, apply to receive an MA degree en route to the PhD. To qualify, students must complete 36 credits of course work and the capstone project. Statute of limitations: Eight years. Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data Counseling Psychology PhD Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data Contact & Faculty Graduate Program Director / Director of Training Sharon Horne sharon.horne [at] umb.edu (617) 287-7495 Counseling & School Psychology Graduate Programs csp.admissions [at] umb.edu Counseling Psychology PhD Faculty Gonzalo Bacigalupe Laura A. Hayden Sharon Horne Sharon Lamb Boaz Levy Meredith Maroney Takuya Minami Kerrie Wilkins-Yel Learn more about faculty, students, alumni, and the program with the Counseling & School Psychology newsletters . Watch Video About Our PhD Programs Hear why our students chose UMass Boston's Counseling & School Psychology PhD programs. Counseling & School Psychology Learn more about UMass Boston's Counseling & School Psychology department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Counseling & School Psychology College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application Accreditation The Counseling Psychology Program has been continuously accredited since 2015 by the American Psychological Association Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation. Questions related to the program’s APA accreditation status should be directed to the Commission on Accreditation: Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation American Psychological Association 750 1st Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002 Phone: (202) 336-5979 / E-mail: apaaccred@apa.org / Web: www.apa.org/ed/accreditation UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms