UMass VIP - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services UMass VIP Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services Arrival Glossary of Terms UMass VIP Employment Current Students Frequently Asked Questions Visa Interview Tips International Exchange Students Global Ambassadors Current Student Resources Staff Giving Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office UMass VIP (Visa Information Portal) To access UMass VIP, please click on the following link, and use your UMB credentials to log in. If there are any issues, please contact I SSS@UMB.EDU ACCESS UMASS VIP E-FORM LOGIN Admissions & New Students Change of Level F-1: Declaration of Certification & Finances (DCF) Visit the E-Form: Click Here Change of Level requests are for students who are going from: Bachelor's to Master's, Master's to Doctorate, etc. ESL to degree program Navitas to degree program Initial Graduate F-1: Declaration of Certification & Finances (DCF) Visit the E-Form: Click Here Graduate students who are in admitted or active status will apply for the Initial Graduate I-20. This E-Form is for students who currently do not have a student visa. This is not for Readmit/Terminated students. Readmit/Terminated F-1: Declaration of Certification & Finances (DCF) Visit the E-Form: Click Here READMISSION Before students can request immigration documents (Readmit I-20) for readmission, they must: Apply for and be approved for readmission to the university Have "Readmit" status on WISER Readmission- Good Standing Declaration & Certification of Finances E-Form Sponsor Statement ISSS Readmission Form - Good Standing Undergraduate Readmission Form Graduate Readmission Form Students who are returning to UMass Boston after academic dismissal must apply for readmission via Student Support Services. Once re-admitted, F-1 students will be allowed to take only 6 credits at UMass Boston. Students must concurrently enroll at another institution for 6 credits and submit the Concurrent Enrollment E-Form. If you will transfer back to UMass Boston from another school, you must use this ISSS Transfer-In Form . Readmission After Academic Dismissal Declaration & Certification of Finances E-Form ISSS Readmission Form - Academic Dismissal Undergraduate Readmission Form Graduate Readmission Form Concurrent Enrollment E-Form Transfer In F-1: Declaration of Certification & Finances (DCF) Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to transfer a SEVIS record to UMass Boston from another SEVIS approved school. Required documents include an acceptance letter from the UMass Boston as well as any forms that ISSO requires. Immigration Clearance (F-1) Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to register an “Initial” SEVIS record to “Active” when a student arrives for the first time or on a new SEVIS number. Immigration Clearance (J-1) Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to register an “Initial” SEVIS record to “Active” when a student arrives for the first time or on a new SEVIS number. F-1 Current Students: Academics Academic Reduced Course Load Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to request a reduced course load below the minimum credits required for an F-1 student based on an academic reason. Must also be approved by an academic advisor. Concurrent Enrollment Visit the E-Form: Click Here F-1 Visa regulations require all students to be enrolled full time each semester. Full time enrollment is at least 12 credits for undergraduate and at least 9 credits for graduate students. It is possible however to take some of these credits at another institution and transfer them back to UMass Boston. Declaration of Additional Degree Visit the E-Form: Click Here For students declaring an additional degree. Student must first communicate with their department advisor and submit their hard-copy application to the Registrar's Office. After the additional degree is reflected on their WISER, they can submit to this E-Form for their new I-20. Declaration of Final Semester Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to inform an immigration advisor of your intent to complete your program within the current semester. In the case of a student’s final semester, it is permissible to take fewer credits than normally required. This form will allow a student in his or her final term to be under-enrolled and will trigger a shortening of his or her I-20 for an end date at the close of the current semester. Students will also receive information on applying for Post Completion OPT after submitting this form. Must also be approved by an academic advisor. Medical Reduced Course Load Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to request a reduced course load below the minimum credits required for an F-1 student based on a medical reason. Must include a letter from a licensed medical professional in the United States. Program Extension Recommendation Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to extend your I-20 program end date for additional required study in your program. This request must be made prior to the end date listed on the I-20. Student must provide required financial statements for this request. For an extended I-20, you must present bank statements totaling the annual estimated expenses of $49,748 USD. For a one-semester extension, you must show proof of funding of $24,874 USD. These funding amounts are not negotiable. If you have a graduate assistantship, the graduate assistantship letter can replace the bank statement as necessary. Must also be approved by an academic advisor. Program Extension Recommendation (ESL Students) Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to extend an ESL program beyond the current end date on the I-20. This request must be made prior to the end date listed on the I-20. Student must provide required financial statements for this request. Must also be approved by an academic advisor. Current Students/Scholars 3rd Party Consent Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to give permission to a friend or family member to pick up your immigration documents at the ISSO. Add F-2 Dependent(s) Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to add a spouse or dependent child under the age of 21 to your SEVIS record as an F-2 dependent. Eship Global (FedEx, DHL, UPS) Visit the E-Form: Click Here Do you need a document delivered to you overseas? If so, International Students & Scholars Services (ISSS) has an account with “eShipGlobal” for all express mail deliveries overseas. EShipGlobal contracts with both FedEx and DHL. Your payment options include credit card, wire transfer, or PayPal. Access this service at https://study.eshipglobal.com. It is easy to use and self-explanatory, but we have included step-by-step instructions for you below. Once you have completed your payment, ISSS will be notified that labels have been created for you. We will print the labels and will finalize the pick-up. When the pick-up is finalized you will receive an email notification of the shipment including the tracking number which you can follow on the eShipGlobal website. Allow five (5) business days for ISSS to organize your delivery request. Detailed instructions on creating an account with eShipGlobal: Go to the eShipGlobal website at: https://study.eshipglobal.com (works best with Internet Explorer & Mozilla Firefox browsers) Click on "sign up" under the “Students” section Register for an account by completing the online form and clicking the “register” button After you have successfully logged in, click "Receive a Package from Universities" Search for University of Massachusetts Boston and click ‘continue’ after locating it Select a carrier under the service column (choice will be FedEx and/or DHL) and click ‘continue’ Select your preferred payment option (credit card, wire transfer, or PayPal) and complete the payment details After completing the payment details click ‘confirm payment’ I-20 Replacement or Update Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to request an update to your information on your I-20, change of major, travel signature or to replace an I-20 that has been lost, stolen or damaged. Transfer of SEVIS Record (Out, Eligibility) Transfer Out Request Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to transfer a SEVIS record from UMass Boston to another SEVIS approved school. Required documents include an acceptance letter from the new school as well as any forms that the new school requires. Transfer Out Eligibility Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to transfer a SEVIS record from UMass Boston to another SEVIS approved school. Some schools require confirmation of eligibility to transfer prior to accepting a F-1 student who will be transferring a SEVIS record. Voluntary Termination of SEVIS Record Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to terminate a SEVIS record for any number of reasons if a student will be ending study as an F-1 student in the US. Fall 2020 Travel Visit the E-Form: Click Here F-1 Employment: CPT & OPT Cap-Gap I-20 Request Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use request a reprinted I-20 with H1-B Cap Gap shown. Must provide approval notice. Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Application Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to request a period of CPT that will correspond with a course in the same semester. CPT must be requested on a semester by semester basis. Must also be approved by an academic advisor. While completing your application, you may want to follow the CPT Application Checklist . For more information on CPT, visit our Employment page . Employer Update For use to report a new or changed employer while on OPT or STEM OPT as required by F-1 student regulations. Post Completion OPT Employer Update E-Form: Click Here STEM OPT Employer Update E-Form: Click Here STEM OPT Validations: click Here POST Completion OPT Application (via the OPT Eligibility Quiz) 1st- Download the OPT-Checklist The OPT-Checklist does NOT replace the Quiz or the Guide, but it is a valuable source that guides your through the application process! 2nd- Visit the Eligibility Quiz: click here 3rd- Visit the E-Form Application: click here Note that you must complete the OPT Eligibility Quiz with a score of 100% correct before applying for OPT. Students must thoroughly read all of the OPT Guide before taking the quiz and accessing the application . This is for POST Completion OPT (12 month period) to begin after a program ends. To see more OPT information, visit Employment on a Visa . Must also be approved by an academic advisor. Social Security Letter Request Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to request a letter to present to Social Security Administration when applying for a Social Security Number. Employment is required before application. STEM OPT Application Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to request an extension of OPT for all students with eligible majors under STEM. STEM OPT Employer Update Visit the E-Form: Click Here For use to update employer in OPT for all students with eligible majors under STEM. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms