Gerontology - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Gerontology Home The Manning College Departments & Centers Gerontology Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Nursing Exercise & Health Sciences Gerontology Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Urban Public Health Center for Clinical Education & Research Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Welcome to the Department of Gerontology UMass Boston's Department of Gerontology in the College of Nursing & Health Sciences leads in studying global aging. With rising life expectancies and a growing elderly population, we explore diverse facets of aging, making it a multidisciplinary field with high demand for professionals. Request Info Apply Undergraduate Programs Aging Studies BA Aging Studies Minor Gerontology: Frank J. Manning Certificate Pathways Internship Program Graduate Programs Gerontology Graduate Certificate Gerontology Research / Policy MS Gerontology: Management of Aging Services MS Gerontology PhD About Our Department Populations are aging worldwide, with people living longer, and the number of older individuals growing rapidly. Gerontology, the multidisciplinary study of aging's economic, physical, emotional, social, and practical implications, is at the forefront. The field of gerontology offers diverse career opportunities as the demand for professionals increases. Here, students benefit from small class sizes and personalized learning within one of the world's oldest gerontology departments. Gerontology Institute The Gerontology Institute, encompassing four vital centers, leads research and education on aging, emphasizing income security, long-term support, healthy aging, and more. We're committed to improving the well-being of older individuals. Learn more about the Gerontology Institute Accelerated Master’s Programs (AMP) Earn a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in as little as five years. Explore Accelerated Master's Programs Resources Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Gerontology Institute Frank Caro Scholarship for Social Justice in Aging Increasing the diversity of leaders in the field of aging studies is an urgent goal of UMass Boston Gerontology. The Frank Caro Scholarship for Social Justice in Aging helps us attract and support doctoral students from traditionally under-represented communities. Learn more about the Frank Caro Scholarship for Social Justice in Aging Read more about Frank Caro & the scholarship on our blog Click here to donate to the Caro Scholarship fund Lillian Glickman MAS Student Support Fund Our Management of Aging Services (MAS) students are some of the most dedicated, driven students around. Most of them are also hardworking professionals, whose impact elevates wellbeing in the community. Many are also caretakers, parents, volunteers and activists, with significant extracurricular responsibilities and expenses. That means that sometimes life and expenses can present challenges to their studies. We have created the Lillian Glickman MAS Student Support Fund to honor the MAS program’s co-founder and assist eligible students with program fees and other costs in times of financial hardship. Read more about Lillian Glickman on our blog Click here to donate to the Lillian Glickman Management of Aging Service Student Support Fund Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Department of Gerontology Wheatley Hall, 3rd Floor, Room 123 Phone: 617.287.7338 Fax: 617.287.7080 gerontology@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms