Blackboard Orientation For Students - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Training & Classroom Support Student Online Learning Hub Blackboard Orientation For Students Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Student Online Learning Hub Blackboard Orientation For Students AV Services & Classroom Support Badges Test Scanning Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Blackboard Orientation For Students Blackboard Orientation for Students Following is a curated playlist with videos that provide an overview of common tools and functionality in Blackboard Learn, the Learning Management System (LMS) used at our University. Navigating in a Course Learn how to find course materials and navigate within a Blackboard space using the Course Menu and other features. Assignments Assignments are created by your instructor and are used for submitting homework and other written work, such as research projects and reflection papers. This tutorial shows you how to access assignments, download and edit an assignment file, and submit to Blackboard . Discussions In discussion forums, you can share thoughts and ideas about class materials. In Blackboard Learn, course members can have the thoughtful discussions that take place in the traditional classroom, but with the advantages of asynchronous communication. Participants don't need to be in the same location or time zone, and you can take the time to consider your responses carefully. Using Discussions . Working in Groups Your instructor can use groups to allow you and your classmates to interact with each other. Within your group you can collaborate on assignments, projects and share files. Work in Student Groups . Set Notifications You can choose the types of notifications you receive and how they're delivered to you. This video shows you how to customize your notification preferences . Calendar Juggling competing responsibilities isn't easy. The calendar displays a consolidated view of all your events. Use the Calendar to Manage Priorities . Ally for Students Blackboard Ally works within your Original courses to provide accessible course content in a format that works best for you. Accessible files include readable text for screen readers, pictures with captions, and easy-to-navigate content. Ally for Students . My Grades You can see grades for all of your courses or one course at a time. Check your Grades . Mobile Access: Download the Blackboard App The Blackboard Learn app gives you access to grades, course content, and more on your mobile device. Available for iOS and Android. 24/7 Help with Blackboard Use the Online Support Webpage Call 844-571-5980 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms