- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2022 Chancellor Suárez-Orozco Welcomes 49 New Citizens Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Chancellor Suárez-Orozco Welcomes 49 New Citizens Sworn in at the Massachusetts State House 09/21/2022 |
    Danielle Bilotta On Friday, September 16, Chancellor Marcelo Suárez -Orozco spoke at a special naturalization ceremony held by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts at the Massachusetts State House. As part of the USCIS’s annual Constitution Week and Citizenship Day celebrations, 49 new citizens representing 29 different countries from around the world were welcomed by District Judge Angel Kelley of the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. “ Channel the feelings, the emotions, the sense of pride, the joyous effervescence of the day into purpose and civility. ” Every year, the USCIS holds special naturalization ceremonies across the country to celebrate the connection between the Constitution and citizenship and highlight what it means to be a citizen of the United States. The court was opened by U.S. District Court Naturalization Clerk Samantha Stoutenburg, followed by the presentation of colors by the Massachusetts State Police Honor Guard. The new citizens were welcomed in the Hall of Flags by Project Citizenship Executive Director Dr. Mitra K. Shavarini and heard remarks from Kelley, who encouraged them to fight divisiveness by being active in their communities, and USCIS N11 District Director Denis Riordan, who also introduced Chancellor Suárez-Orozco. Surrounded by flags representing the welcoming communities of Massachusetts, Chancellor Suárez-Orozco addressed the crowd of new citizens and their families, congratulating them on marking the culmination of their extraordinary journeys. As an immigrant himself, Chancellor Suárez-Orozco spoke about his own journey arriving to the United States “with nothing more and nothing less than a dream and the human agency to seek something better for myself.” Chancellor Suárez-Orozco also highlighted the vast contributions that immigrants have made to the United States throughout history, including Dr. Rene Favaloro, an immigrant from Latin America who completed the first-ever coronary by-pass operation at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, and John von Neumann, an immigrant from Hungary who developed MANIAC (mathematical analyzer, numerical integrator, and computer), which was at the time the fastest computer of its kind. Acknowledging the conflicts and division the country faces today, Chancellor Suárez-Orozco encouraged the crowd to embrace civility and to listen, appreciate differences, and show mutual respect and goodwill. He told the new citizens that citizen engagement is “what makes the land of possibilities possible” and that citizenship is a feeling and emotion that “lives in the heart” and gives us a common purpose. “Our country has shaped generations of immigrants into proud Americans and generations of immigrants have shaped our country for the better,” he said. “So now it is your turn. Channel the feelings, the emotions, the sense of pride, the joyous effervescence of the day into purpose and civility.” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms