Worship In The Area - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Diversity & Inclusion Campus Ministry Worship In The Area Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Campus Ministry Events Staff Worship In The Area Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Worship in the Area Resources for Locating a House of Worship or Meditation This is a brief list of helpful websites. There are many options in religious practice. Multiple traditions are listed at Plurarlism.org CAUTION: Be safe when searching out a religious house of worship and a place to call home!  If possible,  go to any new house of worship with a friend. Two pair of discerning minds and hearts are often better than one. DO NOT FEEL PRESSURED TO JOIN IMMEDIATELY! In general, any organization that demands loyalty by demanding that you quit school, miss classes, give up tools and technology required for academic success, and ignore your family and friends is probably not a group that seeks your best interest and spiritual wellbeing. If you do join, do not feel that you have to stay if the fit becomes uncomfortable or unsafe. Take time to get to know that place, the people, their practices and their doctrines. Observe well before deciding if that is the fellowship you will be safe in as a member or as an associate member in watch-care while you are away from your family. Just because your friend, classmate or roommate has found that congregation to be good for them may not make it a good fit for you. If possible, visit several congregations and houses of worship until you are sure you have found one that is safe and a good fit for you. Informational Websites Islamic masjids Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston - Look by neighborhood United Church of Christ (This is NOT the Boston Church of Christ or International Church of Christ.) interfaith.campusmin@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms