Global Ambassadors - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Global Programs Home Academics Global Programs Global Ambassadors Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services International Exchange Students Global Ambassadors Current Student Resources Staff Giving Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Global Student Ambassador Program The Global Student Ambassador Program in the Office of Global Programs aims to provide even further support from our students to other students interested in studying abroad, as well as create increased support for our incoming international exchange students. The goals of this program are to increase awareness on campus of the study abroad opportunities available to them and increase the level of support for new students coming from abroad to integrate into life at UMass Boston. The program will provide a space for outgoing study abroad students active in the application process to come and ask questions, advice, and work on applications with peers who have navigated the process in the past. It will also create a "buddy" program for those coming to our university from abroad partner universities. The students selected for this role in our office will be planning and organizing events on and off-campus for exchange students to learn about Boston, meet UMass Boston students, and will work to give our exchange students the best experience they can while visiting our city. Global Ambassadors Spring 2024 Lauren Nessralla Hello! My name is Lauren Nessralla. I am coming into the fall 2023 semester as a political science student in between my junior and senior years. I come from an activism background, passing a bylaw in my hometown to testifying for bills on Capitol Hill, and have worked for both my state rep. and Senator Markey. I also have a minor in Arabic studies, currently working on my reading and writing in MSA (Modern Standard Arabic). In the fall of 2022, I studied abroad in Utrecht, Netherlands for five months. I made great friends from across the world and got to bike everywhere. I discovered new appreciations like for city design and road planning. I chose to become a global ambassador to encourage my peers to study abroad—you never know what you could discover! I also am excited to connect with more people from other countries while getting to show them around Boston. Come by the Office of Global Programs on Tuesday or Thursday mornings if you ever want to talk! Hannah Risacher Hi everyone! I’m Hannah Risacher and I am one of the new Global Ambassadors at the Office of Global Programs for the 2023-24 school year! I transferred here last year after getting my associate degree in liberal arts and I’m now going into my senior year here at UMass Boston for my B.A. in English. This summer, I had the opportunity to take a month-long accelerated course on Irish Literature, Drama and Culture, then study abroad in Dublin, Ireland for 10 days. In those 10 days, I discovered so much about myself and what I am capable of. I have a newfound love for traveling and seeing how other cultures differ from ours in the U.S. — and I made some amazing new friends along the way! I decided to become an ambassador this year because I want to help other people who dream of going abroad to take the jump and do it. My goal is to give you support in the application process, making sure you are connected to the right resources, and ultimately making it as easy as possible so all you have left to do for your trip is to get excited!! Looking forward to meeting you all, so stop by the office and say hi! :) Valerie Rivera Hello! My name is Valerie and I am excited to join the Global Ambassadors this semester. I am currently a senior at UMass Boston and my major is East Asian Studies with a Japanese Language Minor. During the Spring Semester 2023 I studied abroad in Saitama, Japan and it was an unforgettable experience for me. I was able to improve my Japanese and make incredible friends. I highly recommend people to take a chance and study abroad to experience new cultures and their food first hand, it will be an amazing memory to look back at. My goal is to help students to the best of my abilities and to plan fun activities for everyone. Don't be a stranger and come into the office anytime, we are happy to see you! :) Our Podcast: The UMB Fall 2021 Podcasts aims to inform students about the opportunities of study abroad programs. We answer questions such as: why should I go? What will I do? And can I afford to do something as big as this? Most often the answer won't be what you expected, and reassurance is abundant in each episode we discuss. Come to find friends, answers, questions, programs and so much more this semester with Hao Tran and Allen Valentine, Global Ambassadors and your new hosts! Prologue - What is UMB Study Abroad Podcast? Episode 1 - Why study abroad? Episode 2 - Steps to study abroad? Episode 3 - Benefits of studying abroad Interview with UNAM student fellow from Mexico Interview with Brittany Dhooge, study abroad advisor Thanksgiving Episode UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms