Global Programs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Global Programs Home Academics Global Programs Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services International Exchange Students Global Ambassadors Current Student Resources Staff Giving Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Become a Global Citizen UMass Boston is dedicated to fostering international education and engagement, encouraging you to explore new horizons and understand our increasingly diverse yet interdependent world. As a student at UMass Boston, you have the opportunity to become a global citizen and be a beacon of international understanding both at home and abroad. Global engagement is essential to becoming a well-rounded and informed citizen of the world. That's why we offer a range of opportunities to connect with our larger international community and explore new cultures and perspectives. Our global programs are designed to help you think critically and creatively about our global community, and care deeply about the world we share. Whether you're interested in studying abroad, participating in our Global Ambassadors program, or seeking support and guidance as an international student or scholar, we're here to help. Our offerings include: Study abroad for UMass Boston Students and exchange programs for incoming international students. National Student Exchange for UMass Boston students to study away in the US, Guam, Puerto Rico, US Virgin Islands, & Canada. International community-building events and programs on campus, such as our Global Ambassadors program International student and scholar services for those who need support with visa-related issues On-campus international scholar programs, supporting visiting research scholars. Support for global partners who collaborate with UMass Boston Resources for UMass Boston faculty , departments, and colleges to develop new international programs, partnerships, and opportunities for teaching and research. If you have specific questions, we're here to help. Contact us at the following email addresses: For general study abroad questions, including faculty-led: studyabroad@umb.edu For general international student and scholar questions: ISSS@umb.edu For questions on MOUs and partnerships: Ksenija.Borojevic@umb.edu You can also visit us at Campus Center, Suite 2100 during our business hours of 9 a.m.–5 p.m., Monday to Friday. If you prefer, you can reach us by phone at 617-287-5586. If you leave a voicemail, we'll make sure to route your message to the appropriate person. Please note that we are currently experiencing a high volume of calls and emails, so we appreciate your patience as we work to respond to all inquiries in a timely manner. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms