About - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Edward Collins Center for Public Management About Menu menu Menu About Staff Recruitments Publications Services About The Edward J. Collins, Jr. Center for Public Management is dedicated to improving efficiency, effectiveness, governance, and accountability at all levels of government, with a particular focus on local and state government. The Center’s aim is to enable public entities to provide high quality services to the people they serve on a sustainable basis. Our History Since its establishment by the State Legislature in July 2008, the talented staff of practitioners at the Collins Center have provided a comprehensive set of services to scores of the Commonwealth’s cities, towns, school districts, and state agencies, as well as to a growing number of municipalities in other states. In this short time, the Center has grown from 20 projects per year in its first few years to nearly 80 projects in Fiscal Year 2018. In doing so, the Center has built a strong reputation in municipal performance management, organizational studies, executive recruitment, and many other services. The Center is named for Edward J. Collins, Jr. Throughout his long and distinguished career in public service, Collins epitomized integrity, professionalism, and innovation, and he served as an important mentor to hundreds of past and present municipal and state officials. The Collins Center is one of a dozen core centers and institutes in the John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies at the University of Massachusetts Boston. By the Numbers Since the Center was founded, it has provided support to: over 160 cities and towns; 24 school districts; 26 regional agencies, quasi-governmental agencies, or county governments; and, 8 state secretariats. Helping Government Work Better View the Edward Collins Center for Public Management Brochure , which provides a quick tour through some of the work that the Center has done. (PDF) Public Sector Management Consulting The Center’s aim is to enable public entities to provide a variety of high quality consulting services to the people we serve on a sustainable basis. Read More Edward J. Collins, Jr. Biography Throughout his long and outstanding public career, Edward J. Collins, Jr. epitomized the spirit and goals of the Center for Public Management that now bears his name. A Boston native, Collins was a graduate of Boston College and Boston College Law School. Collins began his career in public service in 1978 at the Massachusetts Department of Revenue as the Deputy Commissioner in charge of the newly-created Division of Local Services (DLS), where he helped local officials understand the complexities of Proposition 2½ and created cutting edge computer technology to help cities and towns set and collect property taxes. In 1987, Collins received the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation Award for Outstanding Service to the Commonwealth. The Foundation cited his transformation of DLS from an agency that simply processed numbers to one that functioned as a source of valuable information, advice and assistance to local governments. Collins also served in a variety of elected and appointed roles in his adopted hometown of Saugus, culminating in his appointment as Town Manager in 1991. Collins left his position in Saugus in 1996 to become the Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the City of Boston, where he oversaw a $1.8 billion operating budget and brought fiscal discipline to the City during a period of difficult financial pressure. Collins officially retired in 2002, but he continued to serve as a special advisor to Mayor Thomas F. Menino until 2005. Perhaps most importantly, Collins was an important mentor to hundreds of past and present municipal and state officials. Collins passed away in January 2007 after a lengthy illness. In July 2008, a new Center for Public Management was established here at UMass Boston by the Governor and the Legislature and was named in his honor. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms