Community Norms & Policies - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Writing Center About Us Community Norms & Policies Menu menu Menu About Us Commitment To Anti Racism History Locations & Hours Meet The Staff Mission & Commitments Community Norms & Policies Research & Assessment Services For Faculty Services For Students Community Norms & Policies In this page, you'll find important information about our services and policies and answers to common questions about the Writing Center. In addition to the policies described below, anyone who uses a Writing Center service agrees to follow our community norms. Writing Center Community Norms The following norms are a set of principles by which all members of the UMass Boston community and anyone who interacts with the Writing Center (consultants, writers, faculty, and staff) agrees to abide in order to maintain a safe, equitable, and inclusive environment for all. This list of norms was created to uphold the particular mission and vision of the Writing Center; additionally, as members of the larger UMass Boston community, consultants and student writers are expected to adhere to the University’s Student Code of Conduct These guidelines apply to in-person consultations in both our main space and satellite space and to online consultations and to any Writing Center sponsored events. Consultants and writers alike reserve the right to end a consultation at any time if these norms have been breached or if they feel uncomfortable or unsafe. We expect all those who use the Writing Center or participate in our events to maintain professional boundaries. Should any individual violate these norms, they may be denied appointments with certain consultants, be temporarily or permanently banned from using the Writing Center, and/or be reported to campus officials. By scheduling or attending a Writing Center consultation or registering for and attending a Writing Center event, writers agree to uphold these norms. Likewise, Writing Center consultants and administrators agree to uphold and enforce these norms in a supportive and fair manner. Community Norms Respect all identities: The Writing Center does not tolerate disruptive, harmful, abusive, threatening, harassing, or discriminatory behavior of any kind (verbal, emotional, physical, or otherwise). This includes discrimination based on race, ethnicity, nationality, citizenship, political orientation, language, gender, sex, sexual orientation, age, education, ability, neurodiversity, socioeconomic, cognitive, appearance, and/or any other aspect of identity. Honor others’ realities: Everyone who participates in the Writing Center has their own story, background, and set of circumstances. While we may not fully know, understand, or agree with others’ opinions or lived experiences, we must recognize that each person’s reality is worthy of respect and seek to value our differences. All Writing Center participants are encouraged to speak from the “I” perspective in order to validate each writer’s point of view while also allowing for multiple perspectives. Suspend judgment and assume positive intent: It’s important to recognize that our words and/or actions may affect others differently than we intend. Likewise, the way we interpret others’ words and/or actions may not match their intention. Before reacting to comments or behaviors that may feel hurtful, shaming, or discriminatory, assume that the person did not intend to offend. Invite the person to explain their perspective before forming a conclusion. Be present: Writing is inherently personal, and sharing writing necessitates vulnerability. Accordingly, consultants and writers should be attentive and actively engaged in the consultation for its duration. This includes silencing electronic devices, limiting cellphone use (except in urgent situations or if the phone is needed to access writing), and minimizing other distractions that may arise. Maintain Confidentiality: Writing Center participants are never required to disclose any personal information; however, if a consultant or writer chooses to share, everyone involved in the consultation agrees to maintain confidentiality (except in cases where the person sharing presents a danger to themself or others). Be mindful of professional boundaries: Working on writing with a peer offers the chance to collaborate with someone who can understand and empathize with the unique opportunities, challenges, and requirements student writers at UMass Boston encounter. In addition to being students themselves, Writing Center consultants are also employees and should be treated as professionals. It is not appropriate for writers to ask for consultants’ personal contact information, or for consultants to provide this information. While consultants and writers should interact in a considerate and friendly manner, interactions should be focused on writing and writing processes. Policies for Writers Making appointments You must make all appointments under your name and using your UMB email address. You may only use one email address. If you make more than one account, use someone else’s account, or let someone else use your account, you may be blocked from our services for the rest of the semester. We expect writers and consultants to interact respectfully in the Writing Center and to follow all our policies and guidelines. Number of appointments Writers are allowed to make two 45-minute appointments per week and one appointment per day. This ensures that we can serve as many writers as possible, including those who may want to use our drop-in services. Repeating appointments Our Writing Center is set up to provide support at the moment of need, for this reason, writers can make appointments up to 14 days in advance. We typically reserve recurring appointments for writers with disabilities or due to extenuating circumstances. If you have questions setting up a recurring appointment, send us an email at writingcenter@umb.edu. Three missed appointments if you miss three appointments (no-shows) in a semester, you won’t be able to make appointments via WCOnline for the remainder of that semester. If your account has been deactivated and you would still like to make appointments , contact us at writingcenter@umb.edu. Once we reinstate your account, we ask you to be extra mindful of not missing appointments. Late to appointments If you’re 10 or more minutes late to your appointment, we may mark that session as a “missed” appointment. This means that you’ll forfeit your appointment, and the session will count against your missed appointments/no-shows. Since our appointments are scheduled at the hour and last 45 minutes, if you're late to your appointment your session will still need to end at the originally scheduled time no matter how late you are. Consultants are not allowed to work past the 45-minute mark. If you’re over 10 minutes late, consultants can decide if there’s enough time to have a productive session. If they decide there’s not enough time, you’ll need to reschedule your appointment. Cancelling appointments If you cannot make it to a scheduled appointment, we ask that you cancel your appointment by logging into WCOnline and selecting your booked appointment . We allow writers to cancel appointments themselves up to 15 minutes before an appointment. After this time has passed, any appointment that is not cancelled, and for which a writer do es not show up, will be counted as a no-show. For assistance with canceling appointments, email writingcenter@umb.edu . Online appointments Our online consultations work just like in-person consultations. You’ll still work collaboratively with our consultants for 45 minutes. To access your online appointment, log into WCOnline , click on your booked appointment, and select “Start Online Consultation.” Make sure your audio and video are enabled. Online appointments are an extension of UMB’s instructional space. We expect writers and consultants to interact respectfully in the same way they would during an in-person visit. Please plan ahead and ensure you have a quiet space, a strong Internet connection, and a microphone and camera for audio and video functions. Drop-in sessions Drop-ins are meant to provide support in the moment when a writer needs it. While we don't currently have a limit on the number of drop-in sessions writers can have, drop-ins are subject to consultants' availability. Drop-ins are typically around 20-30 minutes long, but length will vary depending on how many other writers might be waiting. If more than one writer visits during the drop-in period, the consultant will divide their time to work with as many writers as possible. Once you’ve worked with a consultant during a drop-in, you may need to give others a turn before working with a consultant again the same day. Consultants also need to take breaks and might not be able to work with you for a long period of time, even if there are no other writers waiting for drop-ins. If you want to guarantee that you'll be able to work with a consultant, schedule an appointment in advance. Our drop-in policy may be adjusted depending on the time of the semester and how many writers are waiting. Drop-ins are currently only offered in person at our main location. We have designated drop-in (listed in our hours and locations page). If you’re seeking a drop-in session outside of these dedicated hours, you may come to our locations when we’re open and ask if there are any consultants who can take a drop-in, though availability is not guaranteed. Working with us on your writing Please only bring writing that is your own to the writing center. We believe in collaborative, hands-on learning and we can’t work with writing that is not your own. If you bring writing that is not your own, you may be asked to leave the session and you may be blocked from our services for the rest of the semester. The only exception for this is collaborative and/or co-authored writing when at least one of the authors is at the session. Writing center survey After you’ve met with a consultant, you’ll be emailed a short survey that allows you to give us anonymous feedback and help us improve. You can also access that survey here . Face masks We want to protect everyone who visits our writing center. We strongly recommend you wear a face mask if you’re attending an in-person session or writing center event. If a consultant asks you to use a face mask, we appreciate you respecting that and wearing one correctly during your appointment. If you prefer or are sick, you can receive the same services via our online appointments. Health and wellness If you’re sick, please don’t come into the writing center. If you have an in-person appointment, please contact us if you feel well enough to be productive in a session, and we can change your session to an online appointment. For in-person appointments, bring your own device or two copies of your text to minimize contact. You may also create a sharable document (Google Docs, OneDrive, etc.) so that you can work on one device and your consultant can work on another. We want to protect all our staff and our writers. If a consultant asks you to wear a mask, please wear one so that we can keep everyone healthy. Masks are available in the Writing Center. If you are sick and prefer to not wear a mask, please use our online services. Services for alumni Durning non-peak times of the semester and while we have open appointments, we can provide recent graduates with up to t hree appointments . A recent alum is no more than two years post-graduation and still has access to their UMB email address. Alumni must follow all Writing Center guidelines and norms and can o nly have one appointment per day and two per week. If you’re a recent graduate and want to schedule an appointment, email the Writing Center ( writingcenter@umb.edu ) and w e’ll provide more information. During peak times, the Writing Center reserves the right to cancel appointments created by alumni to ensure priority is given to current students. Communication between the writing center and instructors The Writing Center does not provide information to instructors about writers’ use of the Writing Center or about the content of  their appointments. The only time we may provide information is if a writer explicitly request us to do so. For example, if you wish to share some information with an instructor, your consultant can provide you with a copy of your post-session form that you are free to share with your instructor. In some cases, you can ask the Writing Center administrative team to reach out to your instructor. Policies for Faculty Avoid requiring visits to the Writing Center Please don’t require visits to the Writing Center. When instructors require their classes to attend the Writing Center (whether as part of a grade or for extra credit) we risk not being able to serve writers who are choosing to seek our support. In addition, we prefer that writers visit us because they want to and recognize the Writing Center as a safe space where they can ask questions and work on improving their writing. This doesn't mean faculty can't invite writers to visit the Writing Center. Check out our suggestions on how to talk to writers about the writing center, our syllabus statement, and other services for faculty on our services for faculty page . Documentation from the Writing Center If a writer asks us to document that they attended a session, with their permission, we may copy faculty on the post-session form or they can forward faculty our post-session email. However, we want to protect writers’ privacy and will not provide additional information about who uses our services or what happens in a session without the writer's explicit permission. Communication between the writing center and instructors Because we want to provide a safe space for our writers and to encourage self-efficacy, we will not monitor nor provide information about who uses our services. Our consultants will not directly communicate with instructors, and we won’t provide any information about our sessions with any particular writer unless we have explicit permission to do so from a writer for very particular reasons. If you have any questions, please reach out to us via email (writingcenter@umb.edu) and we’ll assist you. Requesting informational class visits If you’d like a writing center staff member to visit your class to share information about our services, please fill out the informational class visit form found on our website homepage. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms