Events & Activities - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Honors College Academics Events & Activities Menu menu Menu Academics Events & Activities Student Resources Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Dean's Office Join the Honors College Honors Events and Activities Throughout each semester, the Honors College hosts a variety of events to bring the greater campus community together. These events are organized by our Honors Student Ambassadors and are open to all UMass Boston students, staff, and faculty. Read about our Fall 2023 events below! Ice Cream Social This year, our annual Ice-Cream Social event to kick off the semester also served as a grand opening for the renovated Honors College office, including a new student study space! Students and staff from across the University joined Honors staff in crafting and eating ice cream sundaes, served by our Honors Student ambassadors (pictured). We also provided the opportunity for students to learn about the Honors College and its benefits. A cool treat is always a great way to kick-off the semester! Film Screening: The Unknown Country The Honors College also hosted one of only three region-wide showings of Morrisa Maltz’ new film, The Unknown Country led by Honors faculty Jason Roush. Students and faculty viewed the film about Indigenous culture, the American midwest, and grief and after discussing the movie’s production and reception. Fall-oween Extravaganza On Halloween, we hosted our Fall-oween Extravaganza to celebrate the spookiest season of the year. Alongside traditional holiday activities like trick-or-treating, the community joined for a fall photoshoot and games. Students came in costumes to compete in our contest. Here are some of our winners and their boo-tiful costumes! Autumn Craft Workshop Finally, to celebrate the holiday season and to destress during the weeks leading up to finals, the Honors College held an Autumn craft workshop. With a variety of activities including turkey decorating, card making, and a friendship bracelet station, the community joined us to put together gifts to take home and share with friends and family. Past Events : Banned Book Fair In April, the Honors College hosted a Banned Book Fair, and it was a novel idea! The book fair highlighted a selection of books currently banned from K-12 school systems across America. The Honors student ambassadors were motivated to create this event because so many of the banned books focus on topics such as racial, sexual, and gender identity and they believe it’s important that our students read books that they feel represented by. A total of 102 banned books were raffled off to UMB students at this well-attended event. The book fair created a buzz both on and off campus, with local CBS affiliate WBZ on hand to highlight the event and interview students.  You can watch a clip here . Boston’s Green New Deal Discussion As part of the college’s greater commitment to engage students in complex and interconnected issues, the Honors College invited two guest speakers to discuss Mayor Michelle Wu’s vision for a more sustainable Boston in November 2022. Chief of Environment, Energy, and Open Space Rev. Mariama White-Hammond and Green New Deal Director Oliver Sellers-Garcia explained the city’s developing plans to address climate change, change to cleaner fuel sources, and promote equity and justice in the city of Boston. You can read more about the event here . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms