Student Equity, Access & Success - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Student Equity, Access & Success Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Academic Support & Success The transition to college or graduate school can be overwhelming. We're here to help. Whether you're a first-year student looking for a community, a junior searching for an internship, or a student seeking academic support and resources to thrive in your classes, UMass Boston has the resources you need to succeed. Learn how to join our free individual and group tutoring sessions through our Center for Academic Excellence , tap into our Academic and Career Engagement and Success (ACES) Center to explore internships, and explore all of our departments in Student Equity, Access, and Success (SEAS) that come together to support your success at UMass Boston and beyond. Success Communities Connect with fellow first-year students by joining a Success Community. You’ll be grouped with students with similar academic interests and goals for college, take classes together, and receive extra academic support. Learn About Success Communities Because I do have all my classes with the same people, it's a great way to transition from high school into college. We help each other with homework, and if I'm ever lost, I know I have people I can go to! College of Management student Tutoring Programs We’ll help you understand and excel in your coursework with our Subject Tutoring Program. Receive free individual or group tutoring in many lower-division courses to support your success. Discover Tutoring Programs Student Support Services Program Our Student Support Services program provides resources for first-generation, multilingual, and/or Pell-eligible students. It also supports students with disabilities. Our helpful staff will advise you based on your needs, so you'll always have someone in your corner. We also provide supplemental instruction, extended orientation, and workshops to enhance your academic achievement. We’ll help you feel safe and welcomed on campus. Explore our Student Support Services Program Academic and Career Engagement and Success (ACES) Center The Academic and Career Engagement and Success (ACES) Center is dedicated to providing students with support and resources to thrive in their academic pursuits and future career endeavors. Whether you’re seeking academic advice, for advising cohorts served by ACES, or career coaching, available for all students, ACES is here to guide you every step of the way. Learn more about ACES U-Access Sometimes you need more than academic support to get through the school year. U-ACCESS provides resources to help you meet basic needs so you can focus on your studies. Get access to services such as: Regular food pantry access Meal and snack programs Financial counseling Emergency toiletries and school supplies Explore U-Access Resources UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms