Nicholas.Juravich - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Nicholas.Juravich Nicholas Juravich Department: History Title: Assistant Professor Location: McCormack Hall Floor 04 Phone: 617.287.6860 Send Email Biography Nick Juravich was born and raised in Massachusetts and is a proud product of the state’s public school system. Assistant Professor Juravich also serves as the associate director of the Labor Resource Center at UMass Boston. Area of Expertise Professor Juravich’s research interests include labor history, public history, urban history, the history of education, and the history of social movements in the twentieth-century United States. He teaches courses on labor and working-class history, public history and public memory, the history of public schooling, and the history of Greater Boston. Degrees PhD (History) Columbia University MPhil (Economic and Social History) University of Oxford BA (History) University of Chicago Professional Publications & Contributions The Work of Education: Community-Based Educators in Schools, Freedom Struggles, and the Labor Movement (University of Illinois Press, forthcoming) “‘City of Achievement’: The Making of the City of South El Monte.” In East of East: The Making of Greater El Monte, edited by Romeo Guzmán, Carribean Fragoza, Alex Sayf Cummings, and Ryan Reft (Rutgers University Press, 2020). “‘Harlem Sophistication’: Community-Based Paraprofessional Educators in Harlem and East Harlem.” In Educating Harlem: A Century of Schooling and Resistance in a Black Community, edited by Ansley T. Erickson and Ernest Morrell (Columbia University Press, 2019). Democracy After the Welfare State: An Interview with Ira Katznelson,” (with Maurizio Vaudagna). In Democracy and the Welfare State: The Two Wests in the Age of Austerity, edited by Alice Kessler-Harris and Maurizio Vaudagna. (Columbia University Press, 2017). “‘We the Tenants’: Resident Organizing in New York City’s Public Housing, 1964-1978.” Journal of Urban History. Vol. 43, No. 3, May 2017, 400-420. “A Black Englishman in the Heart of the Confederacy: The Transnational Life of Paul Stephenson.” In The Other Special Relationship: Race, Rights,and Riots in Britain and America, edited by Robin D.G. Kelley and Stephen Tuck. (Palgrave Macmillan, April 2015). Additional Information Before coming to UMass Boston, Nick was the Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow in Women’s History at the New-York Historical Society, where he curated the exhibition Ladies Garments, Women’s Work, Women’s Activism and co-developed a series of workshops for educators on the history of school segregation and movements for educational equality in New York City. Nick’s research is focused on the history of public education, community organizing, and public-sector unions in U.S. cities in the 20th century. His first book, The Work of Education: Community-Based Educators in Schools, Freedom Struggles, and the Labor Movement is a study of paraprofessional educators and their struggles for jobs and freedom in urban public schools. Under advance contract with University of Illinois Press in the Working Class in American History series, The Work of Education explores the creation and development of this new category of educational work—performed today by over 1.3 million people nationwide—and the lives and labor of those who did it. In addition to his research and teaching, he continues to practice public history as a contributor to several ongoing projects. These include the Harlem Education History Project at Teachers College, Columbia University; the East of East project of the South El Monte Arts Posse; the Women and the American Story curriculum guide at New-York Historical Society; and the Teaching Labor’s Story project of the Labor and Working-Class History Association. Nick’s research and public history work have been supported by the Mellon Foundation, the National Academy of Education/Spencer Foundation, the Jacob K. Javits Fellowship, Metropolitan College of New York, the Labor and Working-Class History Association, the History of Education Society, and the Walter P. Reuther Library at Wayne State University. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms