- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 UMass Boston Faculty, Chancellor Named to Regional Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Faculty, Chancellor Named to Regional List of 50 Most Influential People of Color in Higher Education 04/20/2021 |
    Crystal Valencia Seven UMass Boston faculty and staff, including Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco, have been named to Get Konnected!’s inaugural list of the Most Influential People of Color in Higher Education. The list was unveiled earlier this month during a virtual event in partnership with GBH media. (Clockwise) Paul Watanabe, Lorna Rivera, Georgianna Meléndez, Marcelo Suárez-Orozco, Charles Desmond, J. Keith Motley, Connie S. Chan, and Miren Uriarte “ This list reflects the remarkable expertise and the diversity within the UMass Boston community. ” Included in the list are: Paul Watanabe , director of the Institute for Asian American Studies and professor of political science, Lorna Rivera , associate professor of women's, gender, and sexuality studies, and director of the Gastón Institute, Georgianna Meléndez , assistant chancellor for diversity, equity, and inclusion, Miren Uriarte , professor emeritus of human services, and co-founder of the Gastón Institute, J. Keith Motley , professor of management and chancellor emeritus, Connie S. Chan , professor emerita in the McCormack Graduate School and Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco. Charles Desmond , former vice chancellor for student affairs and a member of the UMass Boston Board of Visitors, also made the list. “This list reflects the remarkable expertise and the diversity within the UMass Boston community,” said Provost Joseph B. Berger. “I congratulate each of our honorees and applaud this well-deserved public recognition for people of color in higher education and their incredible contributions.” Created by Get Konnected! , in partnership with Colette Phillips Communications, Inc., the GK Fund, and GBH, the list is the first of its kind in the history of the commonwealth, Colette Phillips said. “One of the reasons that Get Konnected! started putting together these events and these lists is because we are the hidden figures in Massachusetts and in Greater Boston,” Phillips said. “We thought it was important to spotlight, to amplify, to elevate and to document those professionals and people of color who are contributing to the fabric—the economic, the academic, the innovation, the technology— every aspect of the fabric of our lives here in the Commonwealth, none more impactful than the institutions of higher education.” “I was just thinking, ten years ago, would we have been able to do a wonderful event like this with so many presidents, and so many leaders of color, so this is so exciting,” said Liz Cheng, general manager for television at GBH. Watch the list unveiling and a panel discussion on YouTube . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms