Vesela.Veleva - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Vesela.Veleva Vesela Veleva Department: Management Title: Senior Lecturer II Location: McCormack Hall Floor 05 Phone: 617.287.6293 Send Email Area of Expertise Circular economy, green chemistry, pollution prevention, sustainability indicators, corporate social responsibility, environmental and occupational health, eco-industrial parks, sustainable production and consumption Degrees ScD, Cleaner Production and Pollution Prevention, University of Massachusetts Lowell MSc, Pollution and Environmental Control, University of Manchester, UK BS, Electrical Engineering, Technical University of Varna, Bulgaria Professional Publications & Contributions Veleva, V., Horsley, C. and G. Chatrath, "Reducing A Beer’s Carbon Footprint: The Case of Jack’s Abby Craft Lagers," SAGE Business Cases Sustainability Series, Jan. 2024 Veleva, V., “Seeding Labs: Entrepreneurial Innovation to Advance UN Sustainable Development Goals” , SAGE Business Cases Sustainability Series, Jan. 2023 Veleva, V. "Zero Waste—Myth or Reality? Overview of the Concept, Its Current Application, Limitations, and Future Opportunities," EBSCO, November 2022. Veleva, V. and Cue Jr.,B. "Addressing the Antibiotic Resistance Crisis: Velcuva Pharmaceuticals’ Challenges and Future Opportunities", Sage Publishing,2021. Veleva, V., "The role of entrepreneurs in advancing sustainable lifestyles: Challenges, Impacts and Future Opportunities" , Journal of Cleaner Production, 2020. Veleva, V. and Smith, L., "Food for Free: From Food Waste to Healthy Meals," SAGE Publishing, 2020. Veleva, V. and Cue Jr., B. "The Role of Drivers, Barriers and Opportunities of Green Chemistry Adoption in the Major World Markets." Current Opinion in Green and Sustainable Chemistry, 2019. Veleva, V. and Bodkin, G. "Entrepreneurs in Sustainable Consumption: The Furniture Trust Case." Chapter 9: "Sustainable Consumption, Promise or Myth? Case Studies from the Field." Cambridge Scholars Publishing, edited by Jean Léon Boucher, Jukka Heinonen, 2019. Veleva, V. and Weber, N. "AEC Computer: Adopting Circular Business Model for Used Electronics." SAGE Publishing, 2019. Veleva, V. Cue Jr., B. Todorova, H. Mehta, N. and Padia, K. "Benchmarking Green Chemistry Adoption by the Indian Pharmaceutical Supply Chain." Green Chemistry Letters and Reviews, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 439-456, 2018. Veleva, V. and Foley, S. “RISE Products: Transforming Organic Waste into Healthy Product.” SAGE Publishing, 2018. Veleva, V. and Bodkin,G. "Corporate-entrepreneur Collaborations to Advance a Circular Economy." Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 188, pp. 20-37, 2018. Veleva, V. Cue, Jr., B. and Todorova, S. "Benchmarking Green Chemistry Adoption by the Global Pharmaceutical Supply Chain", ACS Sustainable Chemistry and Engineering, DOI: 10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b0227, 2017. Veleva, V. Bodkin. G, and Todorova, S. “The Need for Better Measurement and Employee Engagement to Advance a Circular Economy: Lessons from Biogen Zero Waste Journey.” Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 154, pp. 517-529, 2017. Veleva, V. and Bodkin, G. "Emerging Drivers and Business Models for Equipment Reuse and Remanufacturing in the US: Lessons from the Biotech Industry." Journal of Environmental Planning and Management, 2017. Veleva, V. and Cue Jr., B. "Benchmarking Green Chemistry Adoption by 'Big Pharma' and Generics Manufacturers." Benchmarking: An International Journal, Vol. 24 Issue: 5, pp.1414-1436, 2017. Veleva, V. and Cue Jr., B. Chapter 22: "Benchmarking Green Chemistry Adoption by 'Big Pharma' and Generics Manufacturers.” In: Green Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Medicinal Chemistry, Edited by W. Zhang and B. Cue Jr., 2nd Edition, Wiley, 2018. Veleva, V. Lowitt, P. Angus, N. and Neely, D. “Benchmarking Eco-Industrial Park Development: The Case of Devens." Benchmarking: An International Journal, Vol. 23, Issue 5. Veleva, V. and Sarkar, M. “Pfizer: Environmental and Business Benefits of Green Chemistry.” Case # 9B15M043, Ivey Publishing, 2015. Veleva, V. Todorova, S. Lowitt, P. Angus, N. Neely, D. "Understanding and Addressing Business Needs and Sustainability Challenges: Lessons from Devens Eco-Industrial Park." Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 87, pp. 375-384, 2015. Veleva, V. "Business, Environment and Society: Themes and Cases." Baywood Publishing Co. 2014. Veleva, V. Montanari, A. Clabby, P. and Lese, J. “PerkinElmer: Old Instrument Reuse and Recycling.” Richard Ivey School of Business, Univ. of Western Ontario, Canada, Case#9 B12M115w, 2013. Veleva, V. Parker, S. Lee, A. and Pinney, C. “Measuring the Business Impact of Community Involvement: The Case of Volunteering at UL.” Business & Society Review, Vol. 117, Issue 1, pp. 123-142, 2012. Additional Information Additional websites Profile on ResearchGate Profile on Academia.edu Background Vesela Veleva’s research focuses on the drivers and process for integrating sustainability into an organization’s strategy and management, evaluating and benchmarking sustainability practices, and developing the business case for greater environmental and social responsibility. Her current research focuses on emerging business models and drivers for advancing product reuse and remanufacturing; drivers and barriers to greater adoption of green chemistry by business. Her work has been published in peer reviewed journals such as the Journal of Cleaner Production, Benchmarking: An International Journal, Greener Management International, Corporate Environmental Strategy, and ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering. She has published numerous teaching cases and a book in 2014 - “Business, Environment and Society: Themes and Cases.” She has a doctorate in cleaner production and pollution prevention from the Department of Work Environment, UMass Lowell, and previously has worked as research manager at the Center for Corporate Citizenship, Boston College, Social Research Analyst for Citizens Socially Responsible Mutual Funds, and a sustainability consultant for Pure Strategies Inc. and Sustainable Measures, Inc. Courses Taught Introduction to Environmental Management (MBAMGT 671L), Introduction to Environmental Management and Clean Energy (MGT481), Business Environments and Public Policy (MGT330), Green Innovation and Eco-efficiency Strategies for Business, Corporate Social Responsibility, Managing in a Diverse and Changing World, International Environmental Science and Policy, Introduction to Environmental and Occupational Health, Business and Its Environment (MBAMGT 660) Research Interests Circular business models, toxics use reduction and clean production; green chemistry; barriers and drivers for greater adoption of clean technology; eco-industrial parks; the social and environmental impacts of emerging technology (e.g., nanotechnology). Personal Activities Hiking, biking, yoga, healthy food, and nutrition Honors/Awards 2022 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) grant of $350,000 to provide pollution prevention technical assistance to Massachusetts breweries. 2020 The Corcoran College of Management Endowed Summer Teaching Fellowship 2018 UMass Boston Public Service Grant to support environmental entrepreneurs focused on advancing the circular economy in the U.S. 2016 UMass Boston Joseph P. Healey Research Grant to conduct research on the topic “Emerging Drivers and Business Models for Advancing the Circular Economy in the US” 2001 George P. and Cynthia Mitchell International Young Scholar Award for Sustainable Development (USA) (2001) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms