About - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Pipeline About Menu menu Menu About Change Resources Fellows Fellowship Experience Research Approach Themes About the Project How Can Women of Color Advance to Public Leadership in Massachusetts? Since 1972, fewer than 120 women of color have run for elected office at the municipal, county, or state level across Massachusetts . Additionally, relatively few women of color have been appointed to high-level positions in government despite demonstrated leadership and significant contributions to their communities. Ensuring that more women of color serve in public leadership positions would benefit our communities, the Commonwealth, and our system of democracy. The five Women’s Pipeline for Change research fellows carried out studies that address some of today’s most pressing questions about the political leadership of women of color: How do family and cultural expectations affect women of color when it comes to political leadership? Do limited financial resources and/or fundraising challenges pose the most significant barriers for women of color interested in seeking elective office? What do women of color leaders stand to lose when entering politics? What types of support should be in place for women of color in public leadership? The result of an innovative research partnership between the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy and the Women’s Pipeline for Change , these webpages were designed to offer resources to help women of color advance to public leadership in Massachusetts. Mapping the Pipeline Project This innovative research partnership features five dynamic women of color leaders from cities all across the Commonwealth of Massachusetts: Boston, Fitchburg, Holyoke, Lawrence, and Springfield. Each woman leader is both deeply rooted and actively involved in her community. And each has a different story to tell about the communities they love. This map offers a glimpse into some of the places that are meaningful to them and locates them in the communities they serve and/or lead in various ways. Thank You The Women’s Pipeline for Change appreciates the generosity of donors and supporters who helped to make the research fellowship initiative possible. Read More Pathways to Political Leadership for Women of Color Like the Women's Pipeline for Change Women's Pipeline for Change Videos Follow us on Twitter UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms