FAQ - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Advising FAQ Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Advising Information FAQ Toolbox Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Frequently Asked Questions Looking to connect with an advising office?  Information on contacting, along with scheduling an appointment, can be found below. Q: What if I have more than one advisor listed on WISER? A: You have a whole team of people with whom to work – it may seem overwhelming to start but will really help to explore the opportunities UMass Boston has to offer.  Your primary advisor will usually be a professional staff or faculty member in your major and college (or Student Support Services if you are part of that program), and will often be your go-to for information and answers.  But your advisor may refer you to another advisor who has specialized knowledge about a field of interest or program. Q: Will I always have the same advisor? A: If you switch your major or college, you may work with a new advisor who can provide support in your chosen degree program.  Or the staff in advising offices or faculty members may change, which can mean another advisor is assigned for your assistance. Q: What can I do as a student to make my advising experience the best it can be? A: Communicate, communicate, communicate!  Advising is a collaborative process, so it takes effort from both sides.  Reading your UMass Boston emails (which can help you be aware of important dates and information such as course registration, the pass/fail and withdrawal deadline, etc.) is critical.  Your advisor wants to help you to problem-solve so be in touch when you have questions or need assistance – remember, the earlier you address a concern or question, the more options you may have to solve! Q: What if I don’t have an advisor listed on WISER? A: You can click on the link for your major/program from our main page – there will be an option to send an email or make an appointment with an available advisor.  Or you can email advising@umb.edu and we’ll help you get connected! Q: I need some support in my career exploration – who is my contact? A: If you are an undeclared student in the College of Liberal Arts or the College of Science and Math, or a College of Management student with under 60 credits, you are already working with an advisor in ACES (Academic & Career Engagement and Success) who can provide you with academic and career success advising.  For students in other majors, ACES works with everyone – you may want to book an appointment to discuss major and career exploration, resume and cover letter writing, or internship or job search assistance.   Connect with Academic Career Engagement & Success (ACES) . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms