Canvas LMS Pilot - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Canvas Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Training and resources Migration resources Student resources Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Migrating to Canvas The University has selected Canvas as the new Learning Management System. During Spring 2024 we concluded a pilot with a limited number of courses and are now making preparations for a university-wide migration. Our team remains available to help faculty migrate to the new LMS through a variety of services. Get Started Why Migrate? The migration to a new LMS became necessary due to the fact that Blackboard, our current LMS, will be retired in July 2025. For this reason a new LMS had to be chosen for the University. Why Canvas? Canvas was selected after a careful review of several Learning Management Systems, including the new version of Blackboard, Ultra. During the review process in which faculty and staff from various campus areas participated, Canvas emerged as the preferred option for a number of reasons, with the most important being: Ease of use Simple interface Ease of integration with existing systems Seamless mobile experience Excellent 24/7 support for faculty and students Comparison to Blackboard Canvas is a capable Learning Management System with many useful features, and a leading LMS in the higher education arena. Canvas includes many of the features that faculty have gotten used to in Blackboard. There will be a few differences and some functionality will no longer be available, but overall the teaching and learning experience will be improved. Blackboard to Canvas Feature Comparison The Migration Timeline The migration to Canvas will conclude by Summer 2025. In the meantime, courses will be migrated gradually, semester-by-semester. The migration is being coordinated by a committee composed of members from the Office of the Provost and Learning Design Services and instructors will be informed of migration developments on an ongoing basis. Migration of Content Only To help instructors prepare their courses on Canvas, course content will be migrated with the following schedule: By October 2024, Learning Design Services will migrate one academic year of content (about 5000 courses) from Blackboard to Canvas, from Fall 2023 to Summer 2024. Any remaining courses from Fall 2024 to Spring 2025 will be also migrated. Archives of Content and Student Data For the purposes of reviewing student work, content and student data will be archived by K-16, a Canvas affiliate (about 50,000 courses). Upon request, this data will be made available to faculty. By December 2024, Learning Design Services will archive content and student data from all courses on Blackboard from Fall 2018 to Fall 2024. By July 2025, we will archive all content and student data from Winter 2025 to Spring 2025. Volunteers are welcome! Instructors are invited to reach out to Learning Design Services if they would like to have their courses migrated before the schedule. Training, Support, Resources Faculty and staff will be provided with ongoing training opportunities, and other support resources, to become familiar with Canvas functionality. Our team at Learning Design Services will help faculty get started with Canvas and answer any questions through our usual services, including one-on-one consultations, virtual office hours, review sessions and other opportunities that will be announced regularly. Canvas also maintains a comprehensive knowledge database that is proving to be very useful for learning Canvas. Visit the Training Resources page for upcoming training dates, recordings and more resources. Training Resources Preparing for the Migration The content will be migrated from Blackboard to Canvas in a systematic way, and instructions will be provided for any necessary re-organization and clean up post-migration. In the meantime, there are a few things you can do to prepare your content and ensure a seamless migration to Canvas. Clean up the content collection in Blackboard To facilitate the migration of your content: Go through the content collection of the most recent course(s) in Blackboard and delete any files you are not using to reduce the file size of the content collection. If you still have video files on your content collection (.mp4, .m4v etc.) be sure to move those to a video hosting platform, such as YouTube or Echo360. You can access these platforms for free with your UMB email account. Back up your course content We also recommend that you save a backup of your course files that you have in Blackboard for your records. Remind students to back up their work Before the end of each semester, faculty should remind students to retain a copy of any class work that might be of future value (e.g. graduate school, job portfolio) on their personal computer or non-UMB cloud storage. Students should not rely on UMB and IT to provide them with material stored in Blackboard courses from prior semesters. Migration Resources Participants in the Spring and Summer 2024 pilot will have their courses migrated from Blackboard to Canvas by the Learning Design team, upon request. While most content migrates seamlessly, there is some necessary remediation needed after the migration to ensure that the content is ready for students in Canvas. Visit the Migration Resources page for migration guides and a remediation checklist. Migration Resources Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms