University Gallery - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni University Hall Gallery Home Liberal Arts The Arts at UMass Boston University Gallery Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office About the Gallery The University Hall Gallery is an academic gallery and visual arts program founded in the Fall of 2016 by the Art & Art History Department at UMass Boston. Since its opening, the gallery has produced over twenty exhibitions including solo-exhibitions by artists Mellisa Shook, Richard Yarde, Joiri Minaya, and Todd Pavlisko, as well as group exhibitions that have included internationally renowned artists such as Julie Mehretu, Glenn Ligon, Jenny Holzer, Hans Haacke, and LaToya Ruby Frazier, among others. We organize and host three to four exhibitions each year, complemented by public programs and occasional printed publications. Our mission is to make firsthand experiences with artists and artworks accessible to our students, faculty, and staff, as well as the public. With a focus on contemporary art by local, national, and internationally renowned artists, we emphasize cultural and social pluralism while fostering visual literacy, and helping to create educational experiences across disciplines at the university by utilizing the gallery as a site for engaging with, enjoying, and learning from art. Nurture: Empathy for the Earth Curated by Gallery Director Sam Toabe, and presented as part of the academic conference "Thinking about Climate Change: Art, Science, and Imagination in the 21st Century", organized by Dr. Margaret Hart and Carol G.J. Scollans. 

On exhibit Friday, September 3, 2024 - December 14, 2024. Visit Nurture: Empathy for the Earth Past Exhibitions and Events Indigenous Boston Harbor. Free public programs on Saturday 10.21.23 & Tuesday 10.24.23. Equals 6: A Sum Effect of Frank Bowling’s 5+1. On view: 11.14.22 - 2.18.23. Melissa Shook: Inside and Out. On view: 9.6.22 - 10.29.22. From Theory to Practice: Trajectories of the Whitney Independent Study Program. On view: 1.14.19 - 3.8.19. Visit the University Hall Gallery Location First floor of University Hall in room 1220. p. 617.287.5707 Google Map Location Hours Monday through Saturday 12pm–5pm and by appointment. Group Visits If you plan to visit with a group, please email us at UHGallery@umb.edu at least two days in advance to confirm. Follow us on Instagram for more updates: @UHGallery email UHGallery@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms