Doing Business With The Center - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Edward Collins Center for Public Management Services Doing Business With The Center Menu menu Menu About Recruitments Publications Services Doing Business With The Center Financial Management Human Resources Our Approach Schools Doing Business with the Center Interested in working with the Center? Transactions between Massachusetts local governments and the Collins Center are exempt from the provisions of the Chapter 30B of the General Laws because the University of Massachusetts is an instrumentality of the Commonwealth. Municipalities may simply negotiate a scope of services and a price with the Collins Center, saving both time and money. Similarly, Massachusetts state agencies may enter into Interagency Service Agreements with the Collins Center. For further information, please contact Michael Ward at michael.ward@umb.edu . Edward J. Collins, Jr. Center for Public Management Healey Library, 10th Floor, Room 25 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.4824 The Collins Center is affiliated with the John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms