Management Major BS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Management BS Home Academics Majors & Programs Management Major BS Request Info Loading... Acquire the business acumen and professional skills you need to launch your career. The Management BS is designed to immerse you in both business theory and practice. With the guidance of an esteemed faculty of business professionals, you’ll emerge prepared with the entrepreneurial, communication, ethical, and critical thinking skills you need to achieve your goals—whether you want to start your climb toward the C-suite or launch your own innovative venture. In this program, you will: Develop the communication, presentation, and analytical skills required by contemporary managers Explore a full range of management courses and concentrations designed to prepare you for your desired career path Gain hands-on management experience during your capstone course Career Possibilities Apply your people skills to a career in human resources. Flex your penchant for numbers in a finance role. Or, start your own business with the knowledge you need to grow it. These are just a few of the possibilities a management BS offers. Become a(n): Project Manager Human Resources Manager Entrepreneur Accountant Marketing Manager Data Analyst Business Consultant Plan Your Education How to Apply Apply for Admission Please review the first-year and transfer apply pages for important information about application requirements, deadlines, and application status check. Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students Deadlines & Cost Early action deadline: November 1; Regular Decision Deadline: June 15 Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Curriculum Critical Analysis First Year Seminar Intermediate Seminar or MGT 330 - Business Environments and Public Policy Students matriculating with 30 or more transfer credits do not have to complete a first year seminar. Students in the Honors College will fulfill the first year seminar requirement with HONORS 101 - Honors First-year Seminar and HONORS 210G - Honors Intermediate Seminar . Non-Business Foundation ENGL 101 - Composition I 3 Credit(s) ENGL 102 - Composition II 3 Credit(s) ECON 101 - Introduction to Microeconomics 3 Credit(s) ECON 102 - Introduction to Macroeconomics 3 Credit(s) MATH 134 - Managerial Calculus 3 Credit(s) Writing Proficiency BC 290 - Professional Written Communication & Critical Analysis 3 Credit(s) with a grade of B- or higher Areas of Knowledge Two Arts (AR) and/or Humanities (HU) Two Social and Behavioral Science (SB) Two Natural Sciences (NS) and/or Math/Technology (MT) One World Languages (WL) or World Cultures (WC) Diversity One United States Diversity or International Diversity Non-Business Electives At least 60 credits (usually 20 courses) of non-business electives must be taken for the degree. General education and foundation courses can be included in this requirement. International Management Take one course from the list below: ANTH 272 - Peoples and Cultures of Africa 3 Credit(s) ANTH 273 - Peoples and Cultures of Mesoamerica (Mexico and Guatemala) 3 Credit(s) ANTH 274 - Peoples and Cultures of the Caribbean 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 440 - Post-Colonial Literature: Africa and the Caribbean 3 Credit(s) ART 212L - Traditional Japanese Architecture 3 Credit(s) ASIAN 161L - East Asian Civilizations since 1850 3 Credit(s) ECON 335 - International Finance 3 Credit(s) ECON 336 - Economic Development 3 Credit(s) ECON 338 - The Latin American Economy 3 Credit(s) ECON 372 - Comparative Economic Systems 3 Credit(s) ECON 435 - The Multinational Corporation 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 280 - Global Society and the Environment 3 Credit(s) HIST 214 - Modern World History 3 Credit(s) HIST 161L - East Asian Civilizations since 1850 3 Credit(s) HIST 316 - Europe since 1945 3 Credit(s) LATAM 101 - Latin America: Contemporary Society and Culture 3 Credit(s) LATAM 303 - Reform and Revolution in Latin America 3 Credit(s) MGT 434 - Mngng Global Environ 3 Credit(s) MKT 430 - International Marketing 3 Credit(s) POLSCI 201 - Comparative Politics of Industrialized Societies (C) 3 Credit(s) POLSCI 202 - Comparative Politics 3 Credit(s) POLSCI 220 - International Relations (B) 3 Credit(s) POLSCI 371 - Latin American Poltc 3 Credit(s) POLSCI 372 - Central American Politics (C) 3 Credit(s) POLSCI 375 - Third World Development (C) 3 Credit(s) POLSCI 387 - The Government and Politics of China (C) 3 Credit(s) POLSCI 410 - Pol Intrnatnl Econ 3 Credit(s) SOCIOL 355L - Gender, Development, & Globalization 3 Credit(s) SOCIOL 372 - Globalization and Social Change 3 Credit(s) WGS 356L - Faiths & Feminisms: Women, Gender, Sexuality & Religion in the U.S. 3 Credit(s) Any Arabic, Chinese, French, Italian, German, Spanish, Armenian, Japanese, Portuguese, or Vietnamese course at the 200-level or higher. Any Russian course at the 300-level or higher. Concentrations Management majors are required to complete a concentration, which is often related to their professional interests and career plans. Concentration options are: Accounting The concentration in accounting provides students with a broad understanding of both accounting theory and techniques in preparation for a full range of career opportunities in the private, public, and nonprofit sectors of this rapidly expanding field. The curriculum reflects the knowledge and skills necessary for professional success in the dynamic and critical areas of public and private accounting. Entrepreneurship The entrepreneurship concentration allows students to develop skills in entrepreneurial innovation and action, effective communication, capitalizing on opportunities, and new business creation and growth. Interdisciplinary electives let students focus on e-commerce, international venturing, operational innovation, or starting their own company with mentoring from successful entrepreneurs. Finance The finance concentration offers courses in corporate finance, investment and portfolio management, financial institutions and markets, and financial policy. The curriculum has been carefully designed to reflect the essential knowledge and skills necessary for success in the lucrative and challenging field of finance. Information Systems and Business Analytics Information and data analytics technologies are transforming all aspects of business. Students who concentrate in Information Systems and Business Analytics (ISBA) can acquire the knowledge and skills needed to take a leading role in these innovative fields. The curriculum of the ISBA concentration covers the topics in business analytics and its information systems foundation. Interdisciplinary Business The Interdisciplinary Business concentration allows students to explore various advanced business topics and courses from each department in the College. Students will take specific courses in Accounting, Business Intelligence, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Management, Marketing, or Supply Chain Management disciplines. This concentration is available online, making it a flexible option that fits many scheduling priorities. International Management The international management concentration seeks to broaden students’ horizons and prepare them for the increasingly global business world. This concentration will help students understand both the economic, and political forces shaping the world economy and the implications for management practices. Students will gain an appreciation of the diverse economies and cultures of different countries. Leadership and Organizational Change The Leadership and Organizational Change (LOC) concentration allows students to explore and develop critical managerial skills in decision making, conflict management, communication, and venture-creation skills. The concentration provides students not only with technical skills but also with the ability to manage people and resources effectively. Students can focus their concentration in one of the following areas if they wish: Human Resource Management or Managerial Effectiveness. Marketing The purpose of marketing is to find and keep customers. Employers in today’s economic environment actively seek competent, committed individuals for a variety of upwardly mobile careers in the field of marketing. The marketing concentration provides students with an in-depth understanding of the most current thinking and practices in strategic marketing techniques along with the analytical, communication, and computer skills their employers expect. Sport Business The Sport Business concentration is an option for Management majors and prepares students for careers in the sport entertainment world. This program, located in Boston, with the proximity to professional and semi-professional sports teams and corporate headquarters within the industry is uniquely positioned to provide multiple robust learning and networking opportunities for our students. Supply Chain and Service Management On this track, students learn how to make businesses do more, do it better, and to do it as efficiently as possible.  The hands-on skills and analytical techniques of SCSM turn a vision into a profitable enterprise.  In running the operations of large and complex organizations, SCSM graduates negotiate with suppliers, design customer experiences and the systems that deliver them, and keep the business working.  Every business needs Supply Chain and Service Management. Contact College of Management Undergraduate Programs McCormack Hall, 5th Floor, Room 610 (617) 287-7760 upo@umb.edu Accounting & Finance Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Accounting & Finance, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Accounting & Finance Management Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Management, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Management Marketing Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Marketing, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Marketing Management Science and Information Systems Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Management Science and Information Systems, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Management Science and Information Systems College of Management Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Management. Explore College of Management Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms