Parking Information - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Transportation Parking Information Menu menu Menu Shuttle Bus Information MBTA Parking Information Parking Rates Parking Fines Commuting Options & Resources Visitor Resources Announcements Fall parking permits are now available for purchase on the Parking Portal . MBTA Braintree Red Line Closure: September 6 - September 29. Closure/mitigation information, click here. Parking Information Find information about parking regulations, permit requirements, accessibility, temporary restrictions, and validated guest parking. Parking Portal Instructions & Permit Application All university parking permits must be purchased using the online Parking Portal . The portal may also be used to update your vehicle information and cancel your parking permit. Please log into the portal with your UMass Boston credentials. Apply for a Parking Permit Log into the parking portal and click Permits at the top of the page. In the dropdown, click Get Permits. From there, follow the directions on the screen. Your license plate information must be correct to avoid citations therefore please confirm the accuracy of your license plate information before submitting. Update Vehicle Information Log into the parking portal , and at the top of the page, click Vehicles. If you want to add a vehicle, click Add Vehicle and follow directions on the screen. Please confirm the accuracy of your license plate information before submitting to avoid citations. You then need to add the new vehicle to your permit. First, at the top of the page, click on Permits. Click on your permit number and then at the bottom of the page, click on Add Vehicles To Permit. Select vehicle(s) you wish to add and then click on Add the Selected Vehicle. If you want to delete a vehicle, click on the license plate of the vehicle that you no longer have and at the bottom of the screen click Delete. General Parking Permit Rules UMass Boston Parking Regulations (1/8/24) Permit Requirements: All vehicles parking on campus must hold an active UMass Boston Parking Permit, or use a hourly/daily transient parking ticket upon entry at a gated parking facility, or use the pay by phone option at an ungated facility. Business Day Start Time: The new business day begins at 5:00 A.M. each day in gated and ungated parking facilities. License Plate Display: Permit holders must display a valid state-issued license plate associated when parking on campus. A state-issued license plate must face the aisle from which the parking space was entered. Vehicles without front license plates should not back into spaces in ungated parking facilities. Vehicle Limitation: Permit holders may park only one vehicle on campus at a time. If more than one vehicle is parked on campus at the same time, the permit holder and vehicle will be subject to parking enforcement policies, which may include, warnings, fines, and towing at the permit holder’s cost, and referral to Human Resources or the Dean of Students. Vehicle Information Responsibility: Permit holders are solely responsible for vehicle information on file with Transportation Services. All vehicle information, including registration (license plate), must be entered accurately into the parking permit application. Failure to enter correct information or update information regarding new vehicles, rental vehicles, loaned vehicles, etc. may result in fines and towing. Transferability and ID Requirement: Parking permits are not transferable. The permit holder’s UMass Boston ID (Beacon Card) is required to enter/exit gated parking facilities. A permit holder may appeal a citation within 21 days of issuance if they were issued a citation due to forgetting their Beacon Card. Parking Space Guarantee: Transportation Services guarantees permit holders a parking space on campus but does not guarantee a space near the permit holder’s destination. Parking Regulations Adherence: The unavailability of a specific parking location or space, severe weather, or running late for a class or meeting are not valid excuses for violating any parking regulations. All university parking spaces are clearly identified by either signs or pavement markings. If an area is not specifically marked as university parking, you should assume that you cannot park there. Parking Availability: Parking on campus is limited. All permit types are subject to availability. Responsibility Disclaimer: UMass Boston assumes no responsibility for vehicle damage, theft, or theft of vehicle contents when the vehicle is parked on university property. UMass Boston assumes no responsibility for vehicle damage resulting from towing. Validated Tickets Validated Guest Parking: University departments who wish to pay for a guest’s parking needs at a gated parking facility are able to purchase pre-paid validated parking tickets. These tickets may only be purchased via a Journal Entry and may be purchased using this form . Usage Locations: Validated tickets can be used at any on campus location (Campus Center, Lot D, or West Garage). Internal Events: When requesting Pre-paid parking, departments looking to request validations for their visitors and events, please use our signup for m . External Events: Validations will expire at the conclusion of your event and unused passes may not be returned for a refund. Request Process: To request validations, please use our form . Chaser Parking Ticket Instructions: For guidance on how to utilize chaser parking tickets, please click here . Accessible Parking Accessible parking spaces will be designated by the university in appropriate areas. Parkers will be permitted to park in marked ADA parking spaces where i) the parker has been issued appropriate authorization to park in handicapped spots by the Registry of Motor Vehicles or ii) the parker has been determined by the Human Resources ADA/504 Coordinator office to be entitled to a reasonable parking accommodation. Temporary Parking Restrictions Construction projects, major university events, and unforeseen emergencies (including weather and snow emergencies) may require Transportation Services to close or restrict gated or ungated lots for a specified period. Transportation Services will notify all affected parking permit holders of the times, dates, and locations of these parking restrictions in advance. Electric Vehicle Charging UMass Boston has 11 Juicebox Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations located on the first level of the West Garage. Vehicles parked in EV charging spaces must be plugged into the EV charging station and actively charging. Parking in EV charging spaces is not to exceed 4 hours. Up to date information regarding EV charging at UMass Boston may be found here . Contact Us Transportation Services Service & Supply, Lower Level 100 Morrissey Bvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.5041 Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. General inquiries: Parking.Trans@umb.edu Commuting inquiries: TransDM@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms