Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Education Academic Departments Leadership in Education Student Resources Menu menu Menu Research & Engagement Academic Departments Counseling & School Psychology Curriculum & Instruction Leadership in Education Faculty & Staff Student Resources School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Student Success Scholarships & Financial Support Alumni Spotlight Faculty & Staff Dean's Office Student Resources University Policies & Regulations Familiarize yourself with University Policies and Regulations and the Code of Student Conduct . Office of Career Services The Office of Career Services is designed to help you explore career possibilities, investigate employment trends, and consider graduate school options. Their staff can provide individual advising and workshops on job search strategies, resume writing, and interviewing. Their online career database, Handshake , provides UMass Boston students and alumni access to job postings, career event details, on-campus recruitment activities, and the bi-weekly Job Bulletin. In addition, the Career Resource Library offers many helpful publications related to careers and graduate study. This library is open Monday thru Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., and can be used on a walk-in basis. Why Leadership in Education The Department of Leadership in Education prepares professionals for leadership roles in education (schools, colleges, universities, and education related institutions) through our three programs: Higher Education PhD/EdD Urban Education, Leadership, and Policy Studies PhD/EdD Educational Administration MEd/CAGS Our programs are highly regarded in the region for developing educational leaders in K-12 and higher education organizations. Highly dedicated faculty members have developed strong curricula in each program; they are active researchers whose scholarship has attracted national and international attention. Leadership for change and social justice is a common core element in all three of our programs. The department is committed to preparing thoughtful and responsive leaders who can foster transformation in urban schools and higher education institutions. The faculty, curricula, and application processes are described on each program’s webpage. Our Values Since its founding in 1993, the Department of Leadership in Education has pursued a social justice mission that continues to shape its educational practices, research agendas, and public outreach efforts. The Department’s long history of anti-racist work has produced deep connections with communities of educational leaders in the city and region. Led by faculty who are among the most accomplished scholars in their respective fields, the Department’s three academic programs prepare scholar-practitioners for leadership roles in K-12 schools, higher education institutions, and community and policy organizations, among others. The Department contributes significantly to UMass Boston’s mission as an urban public research university. Specifically, the Department has graduated more doctoral recipients than any other department at UMass Boston. The Department serves as one of the most important pipelines in New England for women and people of color to advance to the highest levels of leadership in K-12 schools and higher education institutions. Furthermore, through external grants and equity-oriented research agendas, the Department produces community-engaged scholarship that recognizes and seeks to bring greater visibility to the cultural and educational assets of communities of color. Rather than viewing the community as a “problem” to solve, the Department seeks to engage the community as an equal partner in efforts to advance educational equity. For our Department, social justice is not simply a buzzword added to marketing materials when it becomes fashionable to do so. Instead, this term conveys the ethos and values that have guided our work for nearly three decades and that will continue to animate our efforts toward anti-racism and restorative justice. Our graduates are trained to take on leadership roles in a variety of education institutions and organizations. Examples of where your degree could take you. Higher Education Program PhD/EdD Upon completion of the degree, our students pursue careers as scholar-practitioners, college faculty, chief academic officers, in policy analysis, and as senior-level college or university administrators. Examples of positions our graduates hold include: President Vice President of Academic Affairs Associate Professor/Professor of Higher Education Associate Dean of Students Vice Chancellor for Enrollment Management Chief Student Affairs Officer Vice President of Institutional Research, Planning, and Assessment Senior Director of Housing and Residence Life Dean of Graduate and Continuing Education Director of the Campus Center Director of Community and Organizational Development Consultant in higher education and nonprofit management Urban Education, Leadership, and Policy Studies Program PhD/EdD Ninety-five percent of graduates work in eastern Massachusetts as district and school administrators, as college faculty, as scholar-practitioners, and in policy analysis. Examples of positions our graduates have held or currently hold include: Superintendents of Schools (Lynn, Avon, Malden, Canton, Archdiocese of Boston, Revere) Assistant Superintendents and District-level Directors in Boston and surrounding areas Principals and Assistant Principals in public, pilot, and charter schools Teacher Leaders Mayor of Framingham, MA Full-time higher education faculty members (UMass Lowell, Emmanuel College, Wheelock College, Northeastern University, Cambridge College, Bridgewater State University) K-12 practitioners who hold adjunct appointments at the college level Policy professionals who work for state and local offices, education reform and advocacy groups, and nonprofits Educational Administration MEd/CAGS Our graduates are leaders who support the transformation and design of schools and community organizations at all levels. Examples of positions our graduates have held or currently hold: Assistant Principal/Principal Director of Instruction Principal Leader Director of Special Education Curriculum Coordinator Assistant Dean of Students Senior Director of Teacher Development Initiatives Coordinator of Access and Equity in the Office of Charter Schools and School Redesign Preschool Director UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms