Private Foundations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Funding Sources Private Foundations Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Funding Sources External Funding Databases Federal Sponsors Private Foundations State Sponsors Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Private Foundations The Paul and Edith Babson Foundation focuses on providing opportunities for the people of Greater Boston through grants in four program areas: entrepreneurship and economic development, culture, education and leadership, development environment and community building, and health and social services. A convener and community leader, the Boston Foundation sponsors special initiatives, convenes groups of people to explore important issues, and works with other organizations and with government to find new ways to build community. The Carnegie Corporation of New York was created by Andrew Carnegie in 1911 to promote the advancement and diffusion of knowledge and understanding. In the 21st century, under Vartan Gregorian, Carnegie Corporation is facing the challenge of how to support the development of a global community in an age when both isolationism and nationalism seem to be fostering a fractured view of the world. The Annie E. Casey Foundation works to build better futures for disadvantaged children and their families in the United States by fostering public policies, improved human services, and community supports that effectively meet the needs of today's vulnerable children and families. The Ford Foundation funds projects in Asset Building and Community Development; Education, Media, Arts, and Culture; and Peace and Social Justice. The William T. Grant Foundation invests in research and in people and projects that use evidence-based approaches to help create a society that values young people and enables them to reach their full potential. The Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation sponsors scholarly research on problems of violence, aggression, and dominance. The Heinz Family Philanthropies are a group of foundations and funds associated with the Heinz family. The Hyams Foundation makes grants in three program areas: Civic Participation, Community Economic Development, and Youth Development. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation funds projects in health and health policy research. The W.K Kellogg Foundation funds programs in the areas of Health, Food Systems and Rural Development, Youth and Education/Higher Education, Philanthropy and Volunteerism, Cross Programming Work: Devolution, Southern Africa, and Latin America. The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation makes grants in three areas: the Program on Human and Community  Development, the Program on Global Security and Sustainability, and the General Program. The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation makes grants on a selective basis to institutions in higher education; in cultural affairs and the performing arts; in population; in conservation and the environment; and in public affairs to "aid and promote such religious, charitable, scientific, literary, and educational purposes as may be in the furtherance of the public welfare or tend to promote the well-doing or well-being of mankind." The Charles Stewart Mott Foundation is a private foundation based in Flint, Michigan which endeavors to enhance the capacity of individuals, families or institutions at the local level and beyond by making grants in four program areas: civil society, environment, Flint area, and pathways out of poverty. The Nellie Mae Education Foundation is focusing and deepening its funding and support commitments through four major initiatives: adult literacy, college preparation, minority high achievement, and put-of-school time. The David and Lucile Packard Foundation provides grants to nonprofit organizations in the following broad program areas: conservation; population; science; children, families, and communities; arts; and organizational effectiveness and philanthropy. The Rockefeller Foundation is a knowledge-based global foundation with a commitment to enrich and sustain the lives and livelihoods of poor and excluded people throughout the world with grantmaking organized around four thematic lines of work: creativity & culture, food security, health equity and working communities. A cross-theme of global inclusion supports, promotes and supplements the work of these themes. The Russell Sage Foundation is the principal American foundation devoted exclusively to research in the social sciences as a research center, a funding source for studies by scholars at other academic and research institutions, and an active member of the nation's social science community. The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation comprises five areas: science and technology, standard of living and economic performance, education and careers in science and technology, selected national issues and the civic program. In 1990, the Sloan Foundation established its industry centers program to create academic communities that would cultivate a thorough understanding of a particular industry through research and observation and ultimately make practical contributions to the industries studied. The Spencer Foundation 's research programs provide funding for investigations that promise to yield new knowledge about education in the United States or abroad. The State Street Foundation makes effective and socially responsible corporate contributions to not-for-profit organizations that provide targeted community service initiatives, primarily in communities where State Street offices are located. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms