Workshops - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Nantucket Courses & Opportunities Workshops Menu menu Menu People Research & Impact Courses & Opportunities Workshops K-12 Experiences Seminars Facilities Field Skills Workshops A field station is a tremendous resource, and one way to visit and use the station is to attend a workshop. Ongoing biodiversity and environmental projects in different habitats provide year-round opportunities.  Participants learn while contributing to a census or environmental monitoring and experience being part of a field science team to conduct field work which may also include laboratory time and data handling. It starts with a lecture and overview of the project but tours Nantucket too! Our first workshop started off New Year's Eve, with a small group learning how to census birds through participating in the Nantucket Christmas Bird Count. The next workshop was very different and took place during spring break for those looking for an alternative spring break activity. Participants learned how to survey the spring intertidal life on the station beach. Both workshops conducted a type of census, but the Christmas bird count takes place all over the world and is an impressive long term Audubon bird census. Summer events and workshops include the "Marsh Moths and Evening Insects" demonstration in July and a Spider Identification workshop in August. Bird Count Workshop Participant Hannah Vered. Nantucket takes the Christmas Bird Count quite seriously and our students had a wonderful time contributing to the count of all bird species seen on December 31st. They learned how the census is coordinated, carried out and compiled. We spent the first day going over how it works, the history of the bird count and the island particulars. We then scouted our property and birded in preparation for the count day. One the count day itself our small group split up between covering the station grounds and going to help bird where needed where volunteers were few and a lot of space had to be covered in remote areas. Bird Count Workshop Participants Emma Meschino and Anh Le (station intern). The end of count day compilation traditionally takes place at the UMass field station, in the conference room, so our students did not have to go anywhere to see how the groups come together to compile the data. The island is divided into 8 sections, each has a captain in charge of birding their section. At the end of the night about 45 people met at the station to compile the results.  It was a great learning experience but also a fun way to start the New Year! Nantucket Christmas Bird Count Compilation Meeting. Photo by Patrick Dugan In 2023 the National Audubon Society was celebrating the 124th year of the Christmas Bird Count program and it was Nantucket’s 69th year of participating in it. Though the final results take a few days to compile and double check, the preliminary results were that over 70 volunteers counted 128 species and 83,626 individual birds on Dec 31st 2023. Station Director Yvonne Vaillancourt, UMB students Emma Meschino and Anh Le (station intern). Spring Intertidal Survey Workshop In March, our intertidal workshop introduced students to intertidal survey methods which translate to many other habitats. We logged 1,100 data points representing our cobble beach and what lives there. Algae, snails, mussels, crabs and more! To be repeated seasonally. Students help set up the transects and photo plots to be used seasonally to monitor what is living on our cobble beach. We will also record the profile of the beach, how step it is as you walk towards the water. What we find we identify, count and log. Similar types of workshops will run in the marsh and in the eelgrass beds later in the year. If you are interested in any of these types of workshops or learning about other projects, contact the director, Yvonne Vaillancourt. Workshops are a great way to gain experience in the field, in the lab and with experimental set up. You spend a lot of time outside immersed in the environment and leave learning a lot about the communities in those habitats.  There is a fee for overnight workshop participation and cost varies with number of overnights. There are also free public events like the Marsh Moth and Evening Insect demonstration coming up in July. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms