News - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni News & Media Home Urban Harbors Institute News Menu menu Menu About UHI Team Projects News E-Newsletter Sign Up Urban Harbor Institute Blog Learn more about projects with the Urban Harbor Institute. Visit the Urban Harbors  Institute Blog E-Newsletters Archive of past e-newsletters as well as current e-newsletter. e-newsletters In the Media Manchester weighs state, local harbor management plans › Gloucester Times | December 18, 2023 UHI is working to develop a harbor plan for Manchester Harbor. Draft of Mashpee Harbor Management Plan Coming Together › The Enterprise Mashpee | November 30, 2023 UHI is working with the Town of Mashpee to develop a harbor management plan, and a draft plan should be available soon for review and additional public engagement. State Of The Harbor Forum Focuses On Impacts Of Nitrogen › Nantucket Current | July 19, 2023 Kim Starbuck, senior research associate at the Urban Harbors Institute, shared an update on the new harbor plan at the 7th annual State of the Harbor forum. A survey for public input on the plan, which is currently in development, is available now, and the team is soliciting feedback from the public. Volunteers Target Debris Along Dot’s Shores › DOT News | June 14, 2023 Volunteers made their way to Dorchester’s shorelines last Saturday morning for a clean-up focused on Malibu Beach, Savin Hill Beach, the area around the Vietnam Memorial, and Patten’s Cove. The program was organized by the Surfrider Foundation, a non-profit that advocates for ocean protection and other climate issues, in association with UMass Boston’s Urban Harbor Institute. Work Gets Underway On New Plan For Nantucket’s Harbors › Nantucket Current | June 07, 2023 After years of delays, Nantucket is finally getting a new harbor action plan. The Town team responsible for the new plan is also working with UMass Boston’s Urban Harbors Institute. The purpose of the plan, according to Director of the Urban Harbors Institute Kristin Uiterwyk, is to “identify [the community’s] vision and its goals for its waterways.” Mashpee Harbor Management Committee Plans Next Outreach Meeting, Public Survey › The Enterprise Mashpee | April 11, 2023 The Mashpee Harbor Management Committee and the Urban Harbors Institute is crafting a plan to act as a roadmap for Mashpee’s policies and set priorities for harbor resource projects. Mashpee Residents Turn Out For Harbor Management Plan Workshop › The Enterprise Mashpee | March 16, 2023 Together with the Urban Harbors Institute, the Mashpee Harbor Management Committee is crafting a plan to act as a roadmap for Mashpee’s policies and set priorities for harbor resource projects. S Mashpee Harbor Management Plan Meeting Set For March › The Enterprise | February 08, 2023 The Harbor Management Committee discussed the upcoming harbor management plan and other public engagement efforts with members of the Urban Harbors Institute (UHI), which is working with the town on the plan. Kristin Uiterwyk, UHI’s director, and Allison Novelly, a research analyst and the project manager, spoke to the board regarding the public meetings. Waterways management plan looks at everything from boats and nature to the view › Ipswich Local News | January 31, 2023 A first draft of the Ipswich Waterways Management Plan was presented to the public at town hall in Ipswich, MA. Reformed Mashpee Harbor Committee Ready To Work On Management Plan › Capenews.net | December 09, 2022 The Urban Harbors Institute is working with the Mashpee harbor management committee on a management plan for Mashpee coastal waters. Value Of Cape Cod Harbors Being Studied › CapeCod.com | March 03, 2020 UMass Boston's Urban Harbors Institute is researching the value of six Cape Cod harbors, and is asking for the public's input through a survey. Port profiles look to aid commercial fishermen › Wicked Local | May 17, 2019 The state is working with the School for the Environment's Urban Harbors Institute and the Fishermen’s Alliance to do a comprehensive study titled Developing Port Profiles and a Commercial Fishing Infrastructure Assessment for Massachusetts Coastal Harbors. Urban Harbors Institute News View All News Understanding Benefits and Barriers to Managed Retreat 07/24/2023 | Kristin Uiterwyk Supporting Municipalities Through the Municipal Technical Assistance Program 06/27/2023 | Allison Novelly, Research Analyst Webinar Highlights University’s Work on Marine Debris and Microplastics 04/14/2023 | Kristin Uiterwyk Wetlands and Waterways Mapping 03/02/2023 | Nicholas Warner Measuring Microplastics in the Marine Environment: A UMass Boston Study with Nantucket Island and the Nantucket Field Station 01/19/2023 | Shannon Hogan, Research Associate UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms