Data Collection - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Survey Research Services Data Collection Menu menu Menu About Beacon Covid19 In Boston Faq Publications Research Services Analysis Coding Consultation Data Collection Instrument Development & Question Evaluation Training Quality Control In Data Collection Methodological Research Study Design & Sampling Staff Data Collection CSR conducts surveys by mail, telephone, in person, and via the web. Data collection staff receive a thorough program of training in data collection procedures, and their performance is evaluated systematically by supervisors. Interviewers receive a training in basic non-directive, standardized interviewing skills, and their work is routinely monitored and checked by supervisors. The aim of these efforts is to maximize participation, response rates, and data quality. CSR conducts large-scale national as well as regional surveys, with sample sizes ranging from less than a hundred to many thousands of surveys, and field interviewers conduct local, state, and regional personal-interview surveys. CSR is experienced in interviewing specialized populations, such as physicians and CEOs, the elderly, children, the very ill, and disadvantaged or hard-to-reach urban populations. CSR has the capability of performing computer-assisted telephone interviewing (CATI), computer-assisted personal interviewing (CAPI) on laptop and tablet computers for in-person surveys, and collecting data using audio-CASI and IVR (Interactive Voice Recognition) technologies, some of the latest techniques to improve response quality for potentially sensitive questions. CSR also conducts many self-administered mail surveys, following standardized protocols including postcard follow-up, second mailings, as well as push-to-web mailings. All completed self-administered mail surveys are double entered and verified. CSR has conducted a number of web surveys with specialized populations and is experienced with increasingly popular mixed-mode data collections. Foreign Language Surveying The Center for Survey Research has significant experience surveying in foreign languages. Within the past ten years, surveys have been conducted in Spanish, Portuguese, Russian, Haitian, Creole, Cantonese, Mandarin, and Vietnamese. CSR also provides enlightened consultation on the potential differences in interpretation of survey results attributable to differences in language and culture. Focus Groups and Cognitive interviews CSR conducts focus groups and in-depth interviews, both as primary data collection mechanisms and as steps in the questionnaire development process. We have conducted focus groups with many special populations, including physicians, children with intellectual disabilities, cancer patients, as well as general population groups. In addition, a number of our research staff as well as our interviewers are trained to conduct in-depth cognitive interviews to understand how respondents answer survey questions. The goal of these activities is to determine whether or not drafted questions present tasks that respondents can perform, are consistently understood in the way they were intended, are measuring what they're designed to measure, and can be administered in a standardized way. CSR can conduct focus groups and cognitive interviews in-person or by video, using a service such as Zoom. Center for Survey Research 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 617.287.7200 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms