The McCormack School - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni The McCormack School Home The McCormack School Menu menu Menu Academics Research Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Governance Public Policy & Public Affairs Cutting-Edge Policy Teaching & Learning Discover the McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies—a nationally recognized leader in public service education dedicated to social justice and equity. With innovative interdisciplinary programs, cutting-edge research, and global partnerships, we address pressing societal issues. Our strengths include: Pioneering academic programs emphasizing innovation, applied learning, and equity. Research supported by prestigious organizations like Carnegie and Fulbright. International collaborations in Brazil, China, Ethiopia, and more. Entrepreneurial centers focused on aging, peace, sustainability, and social policy. Join us in shaping a better world. Explore our programs, engage in research, and collaborate with our community. Together, we can make a meaningful impact. I hope to take with me the experience of working and contributing to something much larger than myself, the humbling satisfaction of knowing that I was part of a concerted effort to help the recovery of the great state of Massachusetts. Violet Acumo, Public Policy PhD Student Pioneering & Award-Winning Academic Programs Noting the public service mission of the John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies, BestValueSchools.com ranks UMass Boston 29th in its list of the 50 Most Innovative Public Service Schools in the United States. U.S. News & World Report ranks several of our offerings among its Best Graduate Schools: Public Administration, MPA Our Conflict Resolution Master’s Program was one of the first in the field of dispute resolution graduate education. Our Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy Program has earned awards from the University Continuing Education Association and the American Association of University Women for innovation and progress toward equity. Our Global Governance and Human Security PhD Program is the first of its kind. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms