Tobaccofree - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students University Policies & Student Rights Tobaccofree Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment University Policies & Student Rights Academic Regulations Grad Academic Regulations Ug Academics Affirmative Action Alcohol Campus Closings Demonstrations On University Property Hazing Policy Intolerance It Policies National Guard Non Discrimination And Harassment Policy Protection Of Minors Policy Residency Reclassification Student Grievance Ug Right To Excused Absence Because Religious Belief Student Right To Know And Campus Security Act Student Right To Review University Records Title Ix Compliance Tobaccofree Umass Boston Academic Integrity Weapons And Firearms Policy U-Access Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Tobacco-Free Campus Over the past several years various groups within the University of Massachusetts Boston community have discussed and advocated for the university to revise its policy on tobacco use on campus. After reviewing documentation from the Workplace Health and Safety Joint Labor Management Committee, the Faculty Council, and the Undergraduate Student Government, the university’s Tobacco Policy Committee has recommended that the campus go smoke-free, tobacco-free, and electronic cigarette-free. The new policy went into effect on January 19, 2016 , and applies to everyone and anyone on campus, including students, staff, faculty, contractors, and visitors. It prohibits the use of any tobacco or nicotine products everywhere on campus—in all buildings and outdoor areas controlled by the university, including parking lots. Tobacco-Free Campus Policy There is considerable evidence that concentrations of smoke are harmful to nonsmokers, as well as smokers. Findings of the Surgeon General indicate that tobacco use in any form, active and passive, is a significant health hazard. UMass Boston has a responsibility to its faculty, staff, students, and visitors to provide a safe and healthy environment for all. With this action, UMass Boston will join the other four campuses of the UMass System, which have implemented a tobacco-free campus policy. To speak to someone about tobacco cessation, call the University Health Services Health Education and Wellness Program at 617.287.5680. Frequently Asked Questions Does this policy include university parking lots? Yes. This policy pertains to all university owned or operated parking lots including the entire Bayside parking lot. Does the policy include the areas surrounding the university such as the Massachusetts Archives, JFK Library, and EMK Institute? No, because each of our neighboring institutions have their own policies. All faculty, staff, students, and visitors are encouraged to be good neighbors and follow their policies. Does the Tobacco-Free Campus policy apply at university sanctioned events or sporting activities occurring on off-campus property? No. Events or activities scheduled elsewhere are bound by the policies or rules of the event coordinator or property manager. Are there any designated smoking or tobacco use areas? No. Designated smoking or tobacco use locations will not available. Will the use of e-cigarettes be permitted? No. The FDA does not consider e-cigarettes to be a safe nicotine delivery system or smoking cessation strategy, and their use is prohibited on university property for purposes of this policy. What other products are prohibited? It is the spirit and intent that the campus be smoke-free as well as tobacco/nicotine-free to preserve and improve the health, comfort, and environment at the university. Therefore, such products as clove cigarettes, chewing tobacco, cigars, and pipes will be prohibited. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms