American Studies BA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give American Studies BA Home Academics Majors & Programs American Studies BA Request Info Loading... Answer the question, “What does 'American' mean?" in local, national, and global contexts. As a student of the American Studies BA program at UMass Boston, you will explore a dynamic curriculum that explores the diverse histories, cultures, and experiences that shape the United States. With a focus on critical thinking, research, and writing skills, this program prepares you to analyze complex issues related to American society, politics, and culture. Gain not only a deeper understanding of the United States, but also learn to contribute to meaningful social change. In this program, you will: Develop your interdisciplinary knowledge and critical thinking skills that enable you to analyze complex issues related to the United States from a range of perspectives Hone your research and writing skills to become an effective communicator and advocate Explore cultural competency and social awareness, deepening your understanding of the diverse histories, cultures, and experiences that shape the United States, and emerge prepared to contribute to positive social change Career Possibilities Inform the next generation of American Studies students as an educator. Leave a positive impact on your community as a social justice advocate. Pursue a career in politics. Or, leverage your newfound cultural insights to launch your own business.  Whatever your goals, UMass Boston is here to support you. Become a(n): Educator Non-Profit Worker Politician/ Public Servant Journalist Community Advocate Business Owner Plan Your Education How to Apply Apply for Admission Please review the first-year and transfer apply pages for important information about application requirements, deadlines, and application status check. Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Deadlines & Cost Early action deadline: November 1; Regular Decision Deadline: June 15 Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Curriculum For detailed course descriptions, please visit the university catalog for American Studies BA . Introductory Course (3 Credits) AMST 100 - American Identities 3 Credit(s) or AMST 110G - US Society and Culture since 1945 4 Credit(s) Discipline-Based Survey Course (3 Credits) AMST 210 - American Society and Culture, 1600-1860 3 Credit(s) or AMST 211 - U.S. Society and Culture, 1860-1940 3 Credit(s) Major Track (9 Credits) Choose a major track from the following: Media and Culture Track Social Movements and Identity Formation Track Migration and Empire Track Electives (12 Credits) Complete four additional AMST courses. Capstone Course (3 Credits) Take one course from the list below. AMST 402L - History of US Visual Media 3 Credit(s) AMST 405 - The Immigrant Experience 3 Credit(s) AMST 410 - Cultural History of U.S. Media 3 Credit(s) AMST 430 - Music & Amer Lit 3 Credit(s) AMST 440L - United States in a Global Context 3 Credit(s) AMST 471L - The City in American Literature and Culture 3 Credit(s) Media & Culture Track Track Requirements Complete nine credits from three media and culture focused courses. Course Requirements Media and Culture Courses (9 Credits) Complete three courses from below. AMST 101 - Popular Culture in America 3 Credit(s) AMST 215L - America on Film 3 Credit(s) AMST 235 - The Social History of Popular Music 3 Credit(s) AMST 250 - U.S. Travel and Tourism 3 Credit(s) AMST 257L - Queer Literature and History in the 20th Century US 3 Credit(s) AMST 278L - U.S. Documentary Photography 3 Credit(s) AMST 285L - Food in American Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 310 - Television in American Life 3 Credit(s) AMST 335 - Music And Politics 3 Credit(s) AMST 352L - Harlem Renaissance 3 Credit(s) AMST 355L - Black Popular Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 375 - Best Sellers in American Society 3 Credit(s) Social Movements & Identity Formation Track Track Requirements Complete nine credits from three social movements and identity formation focused courses. Course Requirements Social Movements and Identity Formation Courses (9 Credits) Complete three courses from below. AMST 206 - The Sixties 3 Credit(s) AMST 209 - The 1990s 3 Credit(s) AMST 212G - The US in the Eighties 3 Credit(s) AMST 223L - Asians in the United States 3 Credit(s) AMST 228L - Asian Women in the United States 3 Credit(s) AMST 257L - Queer Literature and History in the 20th Century US 3 Credit(s) AMST 270L - Native Peoples of North America 3 Credit(s) AMST 325L - Sexual Identities in American Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 350L - Race, Class, and Gender: Issues in US Diversity 3 Credit(s) AMST 352L - Harlem Renaissance 3 Credit(s) AMST 353L - Borderlands, Diasporas, and Transnational Identities 3 Credit(s) AMST 355L - Black Popular Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 360 - Work, Society, and Culture in Modern America 3 Credit(s) Migration & Empire Track Track Requirements Complete nine credits from three migration and empire focused courses. Course Requirements Migration and Empire Courses (9 Credits) Complete three courses from below. AMST 201L - Imagining Latinidad: Historical Trajectories and Everyday Lives 3 Credit(s) AMST 203 - The Thirties 3 Credit(s) AMST 225L - Southeast Asians in the United States 3 Credit(s) AMST 240G - War in American Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 250 - U.S. Travel and Tourism 3 Credit(s) AMST 270L - Native Peoples of North America 3 Credit(s) AMST 285L - Food in American Culture 3 Credit(s) AMST 353L - Borderlands, Diasporas, and Transnational Identities 3 Credit(s) Related Minors American Studies Minor Minor Requirements: Complete 18 credits from six courses including one introductory course, one survey course, two courses from one of the three American studies tracks, one elective, and a capstone. Pass/fail: No more than one course taken pass/fail may be applied toward the minor. Residency: At least of four courses for the minor must be completed at UMass Boston. Course level: At least three courses applied toward the minor must be at the 300-level or higher (including the capstone). Independent study: No more than one independent study may be applied toward the minor. Graduation Criteria Degree Requirements If this is the student’s only or primary major, the degree requirements below must be completed for graduation. See graduation requirements for more information. University Requirements College of Liberal Arts Requirements for Bachelor of Arts Major Requirements Complete at least 30 credits from ten courses including one introductory course, one discipline-based survey course, three courses from a declared major track, four electives and one senior capstone. Major track: Students must declare a track in one of the following: media and culture, social movements and identity formation, or migration and empire. Pass/fail: No more than one course taken pass/fail may be applied toward the major. Residency: At least five courses for the major must be completed at UMass Boston. Course level: At least three courses applied toward the major must be at the 300-level or higher (in addition to the capstone). Independent study: No more than one independent study may be applied toward the major. American Studies Department UMass Boston's Department of American Studies in the College of Liberal Arts cultivates an understanding of US social, political, and cultural movements; the place of empire within US history; the role of race, gender, class, sexuality, and empire  in US culture and society; and the history, theories, and methods used to examine these areas. Explore the Department of American Studies College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore College of Liberal Arts UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms