The MakerSpace at UMass Boston  - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News The MakerSpace at UMass Boston Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Beacons Magazine Spring 2024 The MakerSpace at UMass Boston 06/18/2024 |
    Beacons Magazine The UMass Boston MakerSpace gives our students, faculty, and staff access to physical and digital tools for scientific and creative projects. The UMass Boston MakerSpace gives our students, faculty, and staff access to physical and digital tools for scientific and creative projects. MakerSpace was spearheaded in 2016 by Information Technology Associate Chief Information Officer Apurva Mehta and School for the Environment Academic Labs Director Helenmary Holtz and was expanded into an interdisciplinary community of teachers and learners by IT Assistant Vice Chancellor of Client Services John Mazzarella ’08, G’11 . Since taking the helm in June of 2023, Zack Ronald ’10, the university’s manager for innovative educational technology, has built MakerSpace into a signature program for UMass Boston, attracting users ranging from local public school students to entrepreneurs from the Venture Development Center to international visitors interested in learning more about this innovative initiative. Ronald shared some facts with us about the MakerSpace and its evolution. Founded with equipment donations from various departments on campus, the space has been sustained by Information Technology Services as a place to create and belong. “We’ve continued to invest in this space to align with the university’s goal of advancing holistic student success. The engagement we’ve seen from the 150-plus students who have used the space this spring shows this is an investment worthy of our support,” said Ray Lefebvre, the university’s chief information officer. The space is outfitted with 10 Prusa Mk3 S+ networked printers, two 3D scanners and circuit boards, Arduino, and robotic components available to all students. Students lead workshops and certification courses on the use of all the equipment and materials in the space. MakerSpace is open to all UMass Boston students, faculty, and staff, no matter their major or background. “We provide a place where all students are welcome regardless of academic discipline, a place where everyone is welcome to create, make, and learn,” said Zack Ronald. “It’s important to me to create a sense of community and belonging for all makers.” There is a dedicated team of students assisting participants through teaching, mentoring, training, and support. “I’ve worked with student employees in many different areas on campus for almost 15 years, and MakerSpace has attracted hugely passionate students interested in the work we do. That passion turns into a desire to share the knowledge with others through peer mentorship and training efforts, as well as other creative projects that constantly expand the capabilities of the lab,” said Mazzarella. “The level of engagement, participation, and emotional investment of students in the UMass Boston MakerSpace has to be one of the highest of any facet of campus life that I’ve seen!” MakerSpace has a mission to become zero waste by 2025. With help from the Master Planning and Sustainability Office and continued support from IT, makers have found innovative ways to reuse materials, and are continually accepting and refurbishing donated equipment. To learn more or support UMass Boston MakerSpace, visit www.umb.edu/makerspace. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms