Edward J. Collins, Jr. Center for Public Management - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Edward J. Collins, Jr. Center for Public Management Home Edward Collins Center for Public Management Menu menu Menu About Recruitments Publications Services Helping Government Work Better The Edward J. Collins, Jr. Center for Public Management is dedicated to improving efficiency, effectiveness, governance, and accountability at all levels of government, with a particular focus on state and local government. Since its establishment by the state legislature in July 2008, the talented staff of practitioners in this UMass Boston-based center have provided a comprehensive set of services to scores of the Commonwealth’s cities, towns, school districts, and state agencies, as well as to a growing number of municipalities in other states. Our work is guided by Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 75, Section 45 , which established the Center at the University of Massachusetts. Stay Connected with the Center Read Latest News Newsletter Sign-up View Recruitments Working with the Collins Center is Easy Chapter 30B, the Uniform Procurement Act, does not apply to working with a state agency per MGL Ch. 30B Sec. 1(4). Because the Collins Center is a state agency, municipalities, school districts, and other public entities may contract directly with the Center without following a 30B-compliant process. Similarly, Massachusetts state agencies may enter into Interagency Service Agreements with the Center. The Collins Center is affiliated with the John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies. Support Edward J. Collins Center for Public Management Edward J. Collins, Jr. Center for Public Management UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Healey Library, Floor 10, room 25 Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone : 617.287.4824 Fax : 617.287.5566 Email : collins.center@umb.edu If you have questions or want to discuss potential projects, please contact Sarah Concannon , Director of Municipal Services, sarah.concannon@umb.edu Email UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms