Gerontology Institute - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Gerontology Institute Home Gerontology Institute Menu menu Menu About Contact Helpful Resources Publications Improving the aging experience for all. The Gerontology Institute carries out basic and applied research on aging and engages in public education on aging policy issues. Our researchers focus particularly on aging equity, income security, long-term services and supports, the social determinants of health, and age-friendly communities. Subscribe to e-newsletter Connect on LinkedIn Research & Impact Advancing a more equitable society for growing older Visit our 2023-24 impact report to learn more about recent accomplishments and the impact of our work. Research, service, and community engagement Read about the latest work by our faculty, staff, and students. Explore The Gerontology Institute Staff Fellows Publications Expertise Forward at 40: Advancing Equity in Aging The Gerontology Institute is celebrating its 40th anniversary in 2024. While we are taking the opportunity to focus on the next 40 years and the impact our people can make, we also honor the Institute’s rich history of groundbreaking work. Learn about our history About Us Who We Are We conduct research, engage with communities, and advocate for public policy on aging well. We work closely with the Department of Gerontology in the Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences at UMass Boston. A global leader in the study of aging, the department offers a doctoral program, online master's and certificate program, and an undergraduate major and minor. What We Do Our areas of focus include: Age-friendly communities Aging equity Education and mentoring Financial security Long-term services and supports Social determinants of health. Our Centers Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging LeadingAge LTSS Center @UMass Boston Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) Pension Action Center Contact Us Gerontology Institute 617.287.7300 gerontologyinstitute@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms