Thrive for Shriver Challenge - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Development & Education Camp Shriver & Community Programs Thrive for Shriver Challenge Menu menu Menu People Research & Evaluation Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Impact Report, Mission, Model & Evaluation Summer Stars Saturday Camp Staff and Volunteers Boston Marathon Team TCS New York City Marathon Team International Marathons and Premier Race Events Thrive for Shriver Challenge Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner Media Packet And Publications Best Practices for Inclusive Camps Center Academics Thrive For Shriver 2024 - Support Camp Shriver! Help Camp Shriver Thrive by Participating in one of our Challenges! Join Camp Shriver for the Thrive for Shriver Challenge ! We challenge you to join us for one or more of our series of activities to raise funds for Camp Shriver. Your donation will directly support our campers, as Camp Shriver scales back up to our pre-pandemic levels of serving 120-140 campers, 50% with a disability, this summer! Additionally, a donation to our Thrive for Shriver campaign will help support our Boston Marathon program, ensuring that Camp Shriver continues our strong partnership with the Boston Athletic Association with a team in the marathon. We Challenge You: To serve at capacity, we need your help . Your challenge is to join #ThriveForShriver for one or more of our events this year and help our campers thrive! Laugh with Our Staff Join us at Camp Shriver’s first-ever comedy show , Laugh with Our Staff, for a night of fun and laughter to support the amazing work we do at Camp Shriver. Date: November 22, 2024 Time: 7:00 PM – 11:00 PM Location: Florian Hall, 55 Hallet St, Boston, MA 02122 This will be an unforgettable evening filled with great comedy, community, and a raffle with amazing prizes—all in support of our mission to provide a free, inclusive summer camp experience for children with and without disabilities. Purchase your tickets or consider donating a raffle item or basket today! The deadline to submit raffle items is November 10th. Your contribution will not only help raise essential funds but will also get your business or name a shout-out on our social media and at the event itself. Run, Walk or Roll the Flutie 5K with Camp Shriver! THE SINGLE BEST WAY that you can support Camp Shriver is by joining our team for the Flutie 5K, in person or virtually! Join our team today and prepare to race in person or virtually from anywhere you are from October 26nd to the 27th with the Flutie 5K Your Way! Commit to raising $150 and your race registration is FREE! 100% of funds raised will be donated directly back to Camp Shriver! Join our team today: https://raceroster.com/events/2024/89925/25th-annual-flutie-5k-for-autism/fundraising-organization/57632 Flutie 5K / Sunday, October 27, 2024 / @ MetroWest Medical Center Or VIRTUALLY from anywhere Current Challenges Football Playoff Squares for Camp Shriver What : Host squares for your friends and family as part of your football champion celebrations! Camp Shriver will provide materials and tutorial on how to set up squares for interested individuals. Interested? Contact barbara.gildea@umb.edu ! Create Your Own Signature Event What : There are so many excellent fundraisers that our volunteers love. What was your FAVORITE fun fundraiser for Camp Shriver? Make it your SIGNATURE EVENT and host it YEARLY for Camp Shriver! When: Whenever you wish! Plan on your schedule, anytime befween January and April! Some Ideas: Host a bake sale, create some Camp Shriver ridiculousness (if you can raise $1,000 in 1 week, you will: wear a costume in a 5K, dye your hair, eat an insect/gallon of icecream, etc.), partner with a company that gives Camp Shriver a percentage of the day's sales, host a party (e.g. candles, tuppaware, leggings, jewelry), or whatever makes you happy! Past Challenges TRIVIA! What : Join Camp Shriver for a fun, fascinating night with prizes for the top teams and give-aways for all participants! How To : Gather your team of 4-6 friends and choose your Team Name. Discuss your team pledge of at least $100. Contact Barbara Gildea to register your team and complete your donation. Join us for a night of facts, fun and fundraising for our campers! March Madness Camp Shriver What : Using one of the many sites that organize March Madness pool, friends and family make a donation to Camp Shriver to participate and submit their own bracket. Winners split the pool with Camp Shriver! Camp Shriver Fun Run, Walk & Roll! What : Run for our Campers! Choose a distance and a day to have your own fun run for Camp Shriver! How To : Register with Camp Shriver and make your pledge (a minimum of donation of $35). Choose a day and race length to complete your own (socially distant) run and post pictures with the hashtag #ThriveForShriver! Spread enthusiasm and awareness for Camp Shriver, fundraise, train and run! Want to Learn More? Do you have a great idea for an event in this series? Join our volunteer team, comprised of runner and staff alumni! Email Barbara.Gildea@umb.edu for more information. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms