Pathway Program - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions First-Year Students Pathways Into UMass Boston Pathway Program Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Apply as a First-Year Student Pathways Into UMass Boston Directions for Student Potential Future Beacon Option Pathway Program Chat With Your Counselor Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented Pathway Program UMass Boston’s Pathway Program provides an opportunity for students to begin their college coursework as a non-degree student. You must be referred to the program and cannot apply for the program. Your admission decision letter would indicate whether you were referred to the program. Frequently Asked Questions for Students Frequently Asked Questions for Parents Admissions Referral If referred, you have been invited into this program as you do not currently meet the academic standards for admission to a degree program. Beginning your education at UMass Boston within the Pathway Program will enable you to start your general education requirements as well as a 1-credit University Success course. The general education courses will apply to your degree program if you successfully complete the program and take the next steps upon completion. Read more information about the Pathways Fall 2024 . Marcia Martes Pathway Program Alumna '22 "At first I was shocked being invited to the Pathway Program. But once I took a step back, I realized it was a good opportunity. Once I completed the program, I felt ready for my next step. The program is an amazing opportunity to become a UMass Boston student." Maya Chandler Pathway Program Alumna '20 "The Pathway Program made me feel as if I can be a successful student at UMass Boston. I have been given the opportunity to show my academic strengths to professors who are encouraging and want to see me succeed. The extra emphasis and the support that I received from everyone in the program has led to my success and I am happy to begin my new journey at UMass Boston." Krista Hickey Pathway Program Alumna '19 “The Pathway Program has given me the second chance and the academic awakening that I needed to be successful. I was given immense support by all of my professors as well as other staff members that has not only led to my completion of the program but of my great academic success in the program. Thank you Pathways!” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms