Books - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Sigs Books Menu menu Menu About Contact Courses Events Join Sigs Books Culinary Informal Writing Group Intergenerational Book Chat Knitting Group Stonewall At Olli Walking Group Book Group OLLI has a book group that connects members who love to read books and meeting together to share impressions about them. Meetings take place monthly on the 2nd Thursday (except July and August), and the group will usually be found from 10 am to noon in the space available near the OLLI office. Eileen Courtney handles administrative details and communicating with group members. The books members read are readily available from local libraries or in soft copy at the bookstore or on the internet. A mix of fiction and non-fiction, the titles are selected by the group usually several months in advance and the member who suggests the book becomes the discussion leader. At meetings members share their different perceptions and discussions can become lively. It is generally agreed that much new learning takes place in this book group. Some of the books read recently include: The Art Forger by Barbara Shapiro My Beloved World by Sonia Sotomayer Blink by Malcolm Gladwell Death at LaFenice by Donna Leon The Hare with Amber Eyes by Edmund de Waal For more information about joining, contact Phyllis Jennings phyljen67@aol.com or Marilyn McElaney mmcelaney@comcast.net . Special Interest Groups List Each group is different depending on its focus, and all provide interesting lifelong learning opportunities as well as fun social experiences. See them all. Read More Friends of OLLI A contribution of any size is a gift of knowledge and makes a big difference in the lives of the program and our members. Read More Follow OLLI - UMass Boston Like OLLI at UMass Boston UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms