OER - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Open Education OER Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Find OER OER OER Adoption Program Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools About OER What are Open Educational Resources (OER)? Open Educational Resources are teaching and learning materials made available for free use and often with permission to modify and re-distribute. According to the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, OER are defined as “teaching, learning, and research resources that reside in the public domain or have been released under an intellectual property license that permits their free use and re-purposing by others. Open educational resources include full courses, course materials, modules, textbooks, streaming videos, tests, software, and any other tools, materials, or techniques used to support access to knowledge”. The Benefits of OER Open Educational Resources provide a low-cost and flexible alternative to publisher textbooks for use in online and face-to-face classrooms. They allow instructors to (legally) pick from a wide collection of readily-available learning resources on the web and customize their teaching to their students’ needs while significantly reducing students’ schooling costs. It is estimated that 7 out of 10 students skip buying textbooks because of their high costs . Licensing Materials are normally shared as Open Educational Resources under a Creative Commons license. The Creative Commons licenses make it easy to share and use OER by clearly specifying the requirements for attribution, reuse and modification. Learn more about Creative Commons. Creative Commons and Education: Visit the Creative Commons page on Education to learn more about Creative Commons licensing and find Open Educational Resources. Myths about OER Enforce your understanding of OER with a comprehensive list of misconceptions about OER provided by SPARC Open. Explore OER Visit our Find OER page for a list of OER sources. Also, use UMBrella to explore collections with learning materials available for free through Healey Library . Contribute OER Do you have course materials to share? Get in touch with our team at open@umb.edu . We will help you identify a platform and guide you in the process. OER and Accessibility OER materials are no different with regard to considerations for inclusivity and accessibility for all learners. Accessibility Toolkit 2nd Edition is an Open Educational Resource made available by BC Campus with detailed guidance on creating accessible content. UMass Boston OpenCourseWare UMass Boston OpenCourseWare (OCW) was a free and open educational resource made available for faculty, students, and self-learners worldwide. OCW is UMass Boston's early contribution to the Open Content Movement which opened the door to a multitude of ways that curriculum can be designed and educational materials can be constructed. For more information visit the archived UMass Boston OpenCourseWare site. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms