Critical Ethnic & Community Studies MS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Critical Ethnic & Community Studies MS Home Academics Majors & Programs Critical Ethnic & Community Studies MS Request Info Loading... About The Program UMass Boston's Critical Ethnic and Community Studies program (formerly Transnational, Cultural, and Community Studies, or TCCS) is a critical comparative ethnic studies graduate program with signature elements emphasizing transdisciplinarity and the recognition of transnational global–local connections. The Critical Ethnic and Community Studies program program centers on race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, class, and other social categories related to power and privilege that impact the experiences of both U.S.-born and immigrant members of racialized communities in the United States. This transdisciplinary program brings together scholarly research, cultural expression, and meaningful community partnerships in order to understand the histories and contemporary lives of racialized communities in the United States, their experiences as part of diasporic communities with transnational linkages, and their agency and self-determination. As part of this learning, students engage in critical analysis of how migration—to, from, and within the United States—forms an integral part of the experiences of racially and economically marginalized communities. Students and faculty of the Critical Ethnic and Community Studies program share their thoughts on our blog . Our Approach Our transdisciplinary approach emphasizes the mobilization of knowledge for social justice. Transdisciplinarity entails integration across relevant disciplines as a means of addressing complex social issues that impact the everyday lives of individuals and communities beyond academia. A highly creative, flexible, and collaborative approach, transdisciplinarity is particularly apt for the social justice mission of the Critical Ethnic and Community Studies program and UMass Boston. Critical Ethnic and Community Studies program aims to develop critical understandings and action skills in students with diverse career goals, providing a core of shared knowledge while enabling students to tailor their programs to meet particular interests. Students receive individual mentoring and advising as part of a community that fosters a collaborative learning environment and meaningful community partnerships to promote student success and contributions to the social, economic, political, and cultural empowerment of racially diverse communities. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: A bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited U.S. institution of recognized standing or an international equivalent at the time of enrollment Official transcripts for all institutions where you have earned more than 6 credits A minimum, cumulative GPA of 2.7 on a 4.0 scale (or international equivalent) in all undergraduate work Statement of Purpose Writing sample Two (2) letters or recommendation If applicable, request official TOEFL, IELTS, PTE, or Duolingo scores to be sent to the University of Massachusetts Boston Deadlines: May 1 (priority) and June 1 (final) for fall Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: May 1 (priority) and June 1 (final) for fall Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Why Pursue a CECS Master's? Work with a racially and ethnically diverse, nationally recognized faculty with expertise in transdisciplinary research and teaching practices that draw from ethnic studies, cultural studies, sociology, anthropology, history, psychology, public health, public policy, gender and sexuality studies, and literary and popular culture studies. Join a group of students with diverse life experiences, identities, professional goals, and academic backgrounds committed to promoting social transformation and collective empowerment. Individualize their programs in order to develop more-focused understandings and skills in analysis, research, program development, program evaluation, education, and other applications necessary for pursuing a wide array of careers. Foster skills and experience partnering with community-based organizations working with racially and economically marginalized communities to mobilize strengths promoting resilience, growth, and social justice. Benefit from close mentoring in developing a capstone project that integrates student learning from the curriculum in relation to a real issue or challenge of the student’s choice. Graduates work in a wide variety of fields: community organizing and development, refugee advocacy, education, law, public policy, public health, and research; the MS also prepares students for PhD programs. Curriculum Core Courses (16 Credits) CECS 600 - CECS Professional Seminar A 1 Credit(s) CECS 610 - Foundations of Critical Ethnic & Community Studies 3 Credit(s) CECS 611 - Migration & Diaspora 3 Credit(s) CECS 612 - Community Formation & Development 3 Credit(s) CECS 622 - Transdisciplinary Research in Practice B 3 Credit(s) CECS 623 - Transdisciplinary Research Methods 3 Credit(s) Electives (15 Credits) Complete five additional courses chosen in consultation with the faculty advisor. Electives for CECS include graduate courses from within CECS as well as courses from other graduate disciplines or programs, such as Global Inclusion and Social Development, Public Administration, Creative Writing, Conflict Resolution, American Studies, Environmental Sciences, Gerontology, Urban Planning and Community Development, or Applied Sociology. Alternatively, CECS offers the unique opportunity of fulfilling the elective sequence through the completion of a graduate certificate (at least 15 credits) in one of various areas, including: Human Rights Conflict Resolution Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy Critical and Creative Thinking Capstone Course (6 Credits) CECS 698 - CECS Master’s Capstone 3 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Complete a minimum of 37 credits from 13 courses including six core courses, five electives, and one capstone course. Students may transfer in completed certificates in Gender, Leadership and Public Policy, Conflict Resolution or Critical and Creative Thinking to partially or wholly fulfill their elective credits requirements. Capstone: Completion of a project, internship, or research paper as part of CECS 698. The capstone includes a public presentation of the student’s work. Grading basis: No courses taken satisfactory/unsatisfactory or for no grade may be applied toward the program. Residency: Before enrollment in the program, students should consult with the graduate program director regarding transfer credits or UMass Boston undergraduate credits if these are intended to satisfy degree requirements. The program does not accept transfer credit for any of its required core courses; transfer courses may be applied to the program’s electives. Independent study: No more than one independent study course (three credits) may be applied toward the program. Statute of limitations: Five years. Contact Graduate Program Director J. Cedric Woods cedric.woods [at] umb.edu (617) 287-5784 Administrative Assistant Amanda Achin amanda.achin [at] umb.edu (617) 287-5129 College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore the College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms