Ross Center for Disability Services - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Ross Center for Disability Services Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Ross Center for Disability Services Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Meet The Staff Resources Rights Documentation Students Faculty Who Was The Ross Center Founder Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Our Mission The mission of the Ross Center is to serve as a resource for the UMass Boston campus community in order to ensure academic and housing access and inclusion for students by promoting a view of disability informed by social, cultural, and political forces. The Ross Center strives to create inclusive academic environments by advancing universal design throughout the university. We accomplish this by providing academic accommodations, resources, and training in assistive technology, and information to increase the understanding of disability throughout the university community. Registration Request myRCDS Instructor Module Fall drop-in hours begin September 3, 2024 and end December 13, 2024: In-Person Zoom Monday: 12noon until 2:00pm Monday Zoom Link Tuesday : 1:00pm until 3:00pm Tuesday: 1:00pm until 3:00pm Tuesday Zoom Link Wednesday : 1:00pm until 3:00pm Wednesday: 1:00pm until 3:00pm Wednesday Zoom Link Thursday : 11:00am until 1:00pm Thursday: 11:00am until 1:00pm Thursday Zoom Link Friday: 10:00am until 12:00pm Friday Zoom Link Our Partnerships Beginning in 2018, we are a partner in reviewing requests and making appropriate recommendations for housing accommodations for our on-campus residential facilities.  We also provide support to the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX . Our Values access advocacy collaboration cultural diversity empowerment equality inclusion integration integrity research social model success technology teamwork transformation universal design usability Helpful Resources for Students Subject Tutoring Program Writing Center Healey Library help U-ACCESS Contacting General Medicine and Counseling Services IT help Forms Student Application Furniture And Classroom Space Request Medical Provider Documentation Release Form Confidentiality The Ross Center for Disability Services is committed to ensuring that all information provided is maintained as confidential information. Any information collected is used for the student's benefit. This information may include: biographical history, disability information, and case notes. The Ross Center has adopted the following confidential guidelines: The Ross Center will treat disability-related information as medical information. Any information regarding a disability is considered confidential and shall be shared with others within the institution on a need-to-know basis only. To protect confidentiality by assuring limited access, all student disability-related information must be filed with the Ross Center. The Ross Center will not release Information in our files, except in accordance with federal and state laws. A file may be released pursuant to a court order or subpoena. If you have a record within the Ross Center, you may give written authorization for the release of information when you wish to share it with others. Students are expected to keep confidential any material recorded in class, should that be an accommodation, and will be asked to submit a confidentiality agreement. Students have the right to review your file, however, you must make an appointment to do so. Contact Us If you have a question or want to make a comment, email Ross Center for Disability Services Office Location Ross Center for Disability Services Campus Center, UL Room 211 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone: 617.287.7430 Fax: 617.287.7466 Office Hours Office hours are Monday-Friday 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Special arrangements can be made for testing and exam accommodations by contacting the Assistant Director at 617.287.7430. The University of Massachusetts Boston complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms