- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News The Government Inspector, Going for All the Laughs Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Liberal Arts The Government Inspector, Going for All the Laughs 02/01/2023 |
    Bill Doncaster The cast is set, tickets are on sale, and UMass Boston Performing Arts is countdown mode to one of the funniest plays. The Government Inspector, adapted by Jeffrey Hatcher from the original by Nikolai Gogol, opens in the University Hall Theatre on March 29 for seven shows through April 8. Opening March 29, 7 shows, Tickets Now on Sale Image By: Play Poster - Russian nesting dolls, The Government Inspector “ I love this play. The dialogue is fast and hilarious, and the situations are ridiculous. -- Michael Fennimore ” Director Michael Fennimore has been looking forward to directing this piece for several years, fully prepared to work with a cast of 13 to do – simply put – anything for a laugh. TIckets now on sale at umb.universitytickets.com “Physical humor, mistaken identity, breaking the fourth wall – everything is on the table,” Fennimore said. “I love this play. The dialogue is fast and hilarious, and the situations are ridiculous. We’re going to have a blast.” Gogol’s The Government Inspector was written in 1830’s Russia but is still widely regarded as among the funniest plays ever written. Directors have been known to weave in recognizable comedic devices from The Three Stooges, the Marx Brothers, Monty Python and Saturday Night Live, all of which work since The Government Inspector influenced all of them. “The basic plot is that there’s a small town full of corrupt officials who hear a rumor that Moscow is sending the Government Inspector to investigate them and send them to Siberia,” said Fennimore. “Meanwhile, a stranger shows up and the town believes he’s the inspector, but is he? The town’s foolish behavior will ensure that the audiences have the last laugh.” Tickets are on sale now at umb.universitytickets.com, with shows March 29, 30, 31, April 6, and 7 at 7:30 p.m. with 2 p.m. Matinees on April 1 and 8. Students and Alumni tickets, $12, General Public $17. Tickets available at umb.universitytickets.com The cast includes: Jesus Rodriguez as Hlestakov Amaya Levens as Osip/Postmaster Bobby Lovett as Mayor Anton Antonovich Samantha Stanley as Anna Andreyevna Anna Pumphry as Marya Antonovna Jes Boyajianas as Grusha/Waitress /Locksmith’s Wife Aidan Butler as Hospital Director/Chernyaeyev Jack Roussel as School Principal/Pentelaeyev Shelby Gagne as The Doctor Lexxie Rowell as the Judge/Abdullin Nakatto Nassozi as Innkeeper’s Wife/Svetsunov/Imperial Messenger Meghan Geslin as Dobchinsky Melisa Cepeda as Bobchinsky With understudies Wilder Cerrate and Lucy Rogers UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms