Internships - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Consortium on Gender, Security & Human Rights Internships Menu menu Menu About Giving Internships Projects Resources Internships We see our internship program as a key part of fulfilling our mission to educate emerging scholars and professionals, so we strive to provide interns with educational opportunities and mentorship. The responsibilities vary and are determined individually for each intern. Our staff meets with each incoming intern to come up with a mix of assignments that best matches the intern’s learning goals and skills with the Consortium’s current needs. Typical intern tasks include: Assisting with our international speaker series program, which brings researchers and practitioners from across the world to speak about cutting edge issues related to gender, security, and human rights. Supporting our participation in the NGO Working Group on Women, Peace and Security, which serves as a bridge between women’s human rights defenders working in conflict-affected situations and policy-makers at UN Headquarters. Researching a topic of interest to the intern and the Consortium, in order to create an annotated bibliography to be posted on the Consortium’s new website. Drafting tweets and Facebook posts about news stories related to gender and security or recently published research. Monitoring multiple listservs and searching for resources to create a monthly digest of job openings, conferences, research and funding opportunities in this field. Assisting in the management of our organization. This internship also provides interns with the opportunity to see how a small-NGO functions on a day-to-day basis as well as develop their own leadership skills as an essential part of this organization. Get more information about internships at the Consortium . Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.6412 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms