Leadership - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Peace, Democracy & Development About Leadership Menu menu Menu About Faculty Fellows Leadership Senior Fellows In The Media Key Areas Publications Workshops Leadership The CPDD Executive Director and Senior Advisor for International Programs, in addition to being Senior Fellows and spearheading projects in one or more of the Center's key areas, establish and cultivate the Center's strategic direction.  They are responsible for the Center's outreach, project and fiscal development, project oversight, and routine management. Darren Kew, Executive Director Darren Kew (PhD, Tufts University) is an associate professor of conflict resolution at the University of Massachusetts Boston. He studies the relationship between conflict resolution methods and democratic development in Africa. Much of his work focuses on the role of civil society groups in this development. He also monitored the last three Nigerian elections and the 2007 elections in Sierra Leone. Darren has worked with the Council on Foreign Relations' Center for Preventive Action to provide analysis and blueprints for preventing conflicts in numerous areas around the world, including Nigeria, Central Africa, and Kosovo. He has also been a consultant on democracy and peace initiatives to the United Nations, USAID, the US State Department, and to a number of NGOs, including the Carter Center. Darren is author of numerous works on Nigerian politics and conflict resolution, including the forthcoming book, Democracy, Conflict Resolution, and Civil Society in Nigeria (Syracuse University Press).  His research interests include civil society, conflict prevention, and transnational civil society development; international security and crisis intervention in Africa; conflict resolution efforts as grassroots approaches to promoting democracy; conflict and democracy in Africa (especially Nigeria); culture, religion, and conflict resolution; international negotiation; and nation-building. Email: darren.kew@umb.edu Malcolm Russell-Einhorn, Senior Advisor for International Programs Malcolm Russell-Einhorn is a comparative law and public administration specialist with over two decades of experience in international development and teaching, including work in legal and regulatory reform, public administration capacity building, administrative justice, open policymaking processes, decentralization, and legislative development.  As part of the International Relations MA program at UMass Boston, he has taught Democratic Governance, Decentralization and Development; and Theory and Content of Comparative Public Administration.  He has also taught the capstone course for the Global Comparative Public Administration MPA.   As a CPDD senior fellow, he is principal investigator on a 3-year, $943,000 USAID-funded initiative aimed at improving the quality and legality of administrative decision-making and enhancing citizen legal awareness in Rwanda. Previously, Malcolm was a research professor of public administration for six years at the State University of New York at Albany, where he served as director of the Center for International Development in the Rockefeller College of Public Affairs and Policy.  There he managed an annual budget of $12m and oversaw a global staff of 80 in addition to various consultants working on parliamentary development, local governance, and civil society strengthening projects. Malcolm has conducted research and provided technical assistance to a wide variety of governmental and non-governmental agencies overseas.  He has published several articles in the international development field, focusing on comparative administrative law and legal frameworks encouraging transparency and accountability in government service delivery.  He was the lead author of the USAID handbook on "Using Administrative Law Tools and Concepts to Strengthen USAID Programming" (2008). See Malcolm's full bio here. E-mail: M.Russell-Einhorn@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms