Student Affairs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Student Affairs Home Campus Life Student Affairs Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Campus Currents Content Submission Communication for Students Student Learning Reports Staff Onboarding Student Affairs Technology Services ( SATS ) Support Resources Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Event Request Voyage Plan Dean Of Students Current Students Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Hello Beacon family!  It is a great privilege to serve as your Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs.  My office provides leadership for a group of 16 areas that span the range of student needs and interests.  We work each day to advance student care, connection, and inclusion.  We are here to meet the 24/7 needs of our community. We are Student Affairs, and we are here for you, the students! Karen Ferrer-Muñiz, PhD Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Vice Chancellor Event Request Student Affairs Reports Organizational Charts Drill Down Org Chart - September 2024 -- Chart with each professional staff member Basic Organizational Chart -- Chart with units only University Events and Informational Flyer Posting Policy The following rules have been established to allow groups, organizations, and departments to communicate with the campus community by posting flyers, signs, and posters to advertise events and provide information. Download the University Events and Informational Flyer Posting Policy also known as the " Poster Policy ." Voyage Plan This Voyage Plan will serve as a guide for the Division of Student Affairs' ongoing work to serve the UMass Boston community. Communication to Students Student Affairs offers many resources to outreach to current students, learn about them here. Here4U Here4U is an electronic resource that can assist you with your campus questions, concerns, and feedback. Finance & Administration Process Maps View process maps to assist with Bank Card workflow, ePAF workflow, procurement, and others.  UMB Login Required to view. Student Clubs & Groups Check out student groups on campus that make up campus life. Student Learning At the core of our work is support student growth and learning. Learn more about the learning domains that guide this work here. New Staff Onboarding This committee supports the transitional support for new Student Affairs staff to jump start their success and contribution to our mission. Request Student Affairs Technology Staff Support Use you campus log-in to request desktop and other in person or remote technology support. Division Leadership Groups Vice Chancellor's Executive Team This group identifies and addresses issues related to the Division’s mission, vision, and goals.  It provides high-level strategy and decision-making that have implications for strategic development, operations, and resource management.  Membership includes the Vice Chancellor, Associate Vice Chancellor, Assistant Vice Chancellors, Director of Public Safety/Chief of Police, Executive Director of Health Services, and the Director of Finance and Administration. Student Affairs Staff Council . . Karen Ferrer-Muñiz, Ph.D. Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs, Karen.Ferrer-Muniz@umb.edu Shawn De Veau, J.D. Associate Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs & Dean of Students Shawn.DeVeau@umb.edu Steve Neville, Ph.D. Assistant Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Steven.Neville@umb.edu Michael C. Metzger, Ph.D. Assistant Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs michael.metzger@umb.edu Aurora Burgos Executive Assistant to the Vice Chancellor Aurora.Burgos@umb.edu Stacey Lloyd, PhD Director of Public Safety/Chief of Police Stacey.Lloyd@umb.edu Ashlee Carter, Ph.D. Associate Dean of Students & Deputy Title IX Coordinator Ashlee.Carter@umb.edu Jennifer Maitino Associate Dean & Director of Housing and Residence Education Jennifer.Maitino@umb.edu Chiquita Baylor Assistant Dean of Campus Involvement Chiquita.Baylor@umb.edu Robert Pomales Executive Director of University Health Services Robert.Pomales@umb.edu Shaun Morgan Executive Director of Global Programs Shaun.Morgan@umb.edu Bill DeFranc Interim Co-Director of the Counseling Center William.DeFranc@umb.edu Teri Grayson Interim Co-Director of the Counseling Center Teri.Grayson@umb.edu Chris Colon Director of Student Affairs Technology Services Christopher.Colon@umb.edu Ken Sprague Associate Director of Public Safety/Deputy Chief of Police Kenneth.Sprague@umb.edu Janet Wolk Director of Finance and Administration Janet.Wolk@umb.edu Contact Us Student Affairs Quinn Administration Building, 3rd Floor 617.287.5805 VCSA@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms