Holly.Jackson - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Holly.Jackson Holly Jackson Department: American Studies Title: Department Chairman Associate Professor, English Location: Wheatley Hall Floor 06 Phone: 617.287.6700 Send Email Biography Professor Jackson writes and speaks on 19th-century American cultural history for both scholarly audiences and the general public. Her research has been cited in USA Today, London Review of Books, American Scholar, CNBC, HuffPost, History News Network, National Public Radio, Chronicle of Higher Education, Black Issues Book Review, Arts and Letters Daily and other venues. Area of Expertise American literature and culture; American protest movements and utopian thought; the 19th-century novel; the Civil War era; African American studies; queer studies. Degrees PhD, Brandeis University Professional Publications & Contributions "The Transformation of American Family Property in The House of Seven Gables." Critical Edition of The House of Seven Gables by Nathaniel Hawthorne, Ed. Robert Levine. Norton (2020): 399-412. American Radicals: How 19th-Century Protest Shaped the Nation (Crown/Penguin Random House 2019) “Boston’s Forgotten Fight against Slavery: It’s Time for a Historical Marker at the Site of a Pivotal Protest.” Boston Globe, 24 November 2019. “Beyond Suffrage: It’s Time to Fight for the Original and Unfulfilled Goals of the Women’s Movement.” Washington Post, 17 October 2019. “What Next? Expanding the Radical Promise of the American Revolution” October 10, 2019 Laphams Quarterly Online “Coming Out of the World: The 19th-Century Activist Tactic that Queers Should Reclaim (Again).” Public Seminar , 24 June 2019. Co-Organizer with Nadia Nurhussein, “Early Black Utopias” symposium, Johns Hopkins University, Center for Africana Studies, March 29, 2019 “How to Protest the 4th of July." New York Times , July 3, 2018 “Bring Back Election Day: America’s First Holiday Was About More Than Voting.” Washington Post , October 22, 2018 “The Radicals’ Reconstruction: Jewett at Port Royal.” J19: The Journal of 19th-Century Americanists 6.2. (November 2018). "The Marriage Trap in the Free-Love Novel and Queer Critique." American Literature 87.4 (December 2015): 681-708. (Winner of the Norman Foerster Prize) American Blood: The Ends of the Family in American Literature , 1850-1900. Oxford University Press , 2014. “Another Long Bridge: Reproduction and Reversion in Pauline Hopkins’s Hagar’s Daughter.” Early African American Print Culture . Eds. Lara Langer Cohen and Jordan Stein. University of Pennsylvania Press (2012): 192-202. “The Transformation of American Family Property in The House of the Seven Gables.” ESQ: A Journal of the American Renaissance 56:3 (September 2010). “‘So We Die before Our Own Eyes’: Willful Sterility in The Country of the Pointed Firs.” The New England Quarterly 82.2 (June 2009): 264-284. “Identifying Emma Dunham Kelley: Rethinking Race and Authorship.” PMLA 122 (May 2007): 728-741. (Winner of the Nineteenth-Century Studies Association 2008 Article Prize) Book reviews in MELUS; Nineteenth-Century Contexts; Criticism; Legacy: A Journal of American Women Writers; and Gastronomica: The Journal of Food and Culture. Additional Information Conference presentations and invited talks: Mahindra Humanities Center at Harvard University, American Literature and Culture Seminar Johns Hopkins University, “Humanities for All” event, a Mellon-funded partnership with the Community Colleges of Baltimore County Simmons College, Gay Memorial Lecture keynote speaker Early African American Print Culture in Theory and Practice Symposium, McNeil Center for Early American Studies, University of Pennsylvania. Pictures and Progress: Early Photography and African American Identity Symposium, Duke University. C19: The Society of Nineteenth-Century Americanists Modernist Studies Association American Literature Association American Studies Association African American Literature and Culture Society Modern Language Association Boston Book Festival Tufts University English Department Amherst College History Department Courses Taught American Romanticism; Radical Boston: American Protest Literature to 1900; Cultures of the American Civil War; Reading Sexuality: Queer Theory; Sex, Family, and Nation in the American Novel; American Gothic Fiction. Awards Massachusetts Book Awards, Non-fiction Honoree 2019 Smithsonian Magazine, Ten Best History Books of the Year, 2019 Norman Foerster Prize (for best essay published in American Literature), 2015 Nineteenth-Century Studies Association Article Prize, 2008 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms