Our Team - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Pension Action Center About Us Our Team Menu menu Menu About Us Our Team Who We Can Help Contact Us Donate El Centro De Accion En Pensiones Pension Resources Sponsors Pension Action Center Staff Email: pension@umb.edu Phone (toll-free): 1.888.425.6067;  (local): 617.287.7307 Anna-Marie Tabor Consultant Anna served as PAC's director until fall 2023, when she accepted a visiting faculty position at the University of Massachusetts School of Law. Prior to joining PAC, she served as a Deputy Fair Lending Director at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, where she worked to prevent illegal discrimination in lending. She also served previously as an attorney at the Federal Reserve Board; as an Assistant Attorney General at the Office of the Massachusetts Attorney General; and as a Special Assistant at the U.S. Department of Treasury. She earned her J.D. at Harvard Law School, and earned an M.Sc. in Economics from the London School of Economics. In addition to her role at PAC, she is an Adjunct Professor of Law at the University of Massachusetts Law School. Tyler Compton Lead Attorney Tyler joined the Pension Action Center from Vermont Legal Aid, where she worked in the Elder Law Unit on matters including housing preservation, Social Security appeals, Medicaid eligibility, debt collection defense, and aid to victims of financial exploitation and abuse. Tyler’s experience also includes an internship at PAC from 2015-16. She is a graduate of Boston College Law School and Smith College, and she is a member of the bars of Vermont and Massachusetts. Raad Alsowayigh Legal Clerk Raad joined the Pension Action Center in the fall of 2023 after graduating from Boston College Law School in May 2023. As a law student he was drawn to public interest work. On behalf of a client facing disability discrimination, he filed an amicus brief which led to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights ruling in the client’s favor. As an intern with the International Legal Foundation, he worked with Tunisian lawyers to improve the country’s criminal justice system. He earned a BA in political science from Penn State University. Emily Kennerley Director of Development and Outreach Emily has worked with PAC since September 2020. Before that time, she was based in New York City. Over the last ten years, she has worked at Trinity Church Wall Street and The Juilliard School. She is a graduate of Westminster Choir College, St. John's College, Santa Fe, and Phillips Exeter Academy. Pension Counselors Blake Johnson Blake joined the Pension Action Center in July 2022 as a volunteer attorney. His legal experience includes client and project management across numerous industries. He currently serves as head of legal operations for a residential real estate company. Blake is a 2005 graduate of the Loyola University Chicago School of Law and a 2002 graduate of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Marcia Trenholm Marcia  joined the Pension Action Center as a volunteer in June 2021 after retiring from a career in internal audit and compliance. During her career, she worked for several financial institutions in the Boston area, most recently retiring from the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company. She is a graduate of Smith College and Bentley University. Constance Vecchione Connie retired in 2019 as chief bar counsel at the Office of Bar Counsel of the Massachusetts Board of Bar Overseers, the attorney disciplinary agency. She had been an attorney with the Office of Bar Counsel since 1980, the last 12 years as chief counsel. She is a 1970 graduate of Brandeis University and a 1974 graduate of Northeastern University School of Law. She was previously a law clerk with the Massachusetts Superior Court (1974-75) and in private practice (1975-80). Advisory Board Anne S. Becker* Winston & Strawn LLP Kurt Czarnowski Czarnowski Consulting Krista D'Aloia Fidelity Benjamin A. Gibbons, Esq. Holland and Hart LLP Evelyn Haralampu, Esq. Burns & Levinson LLP Katherine Hesse, Esq. Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane LLP John Kimpel Retired from Fidelity Investment Keith S. Kotfica Health Equity Andrew Liazos, Esq. McDermott Will & Emery Lori Lenard The Brink's Company Jacob Mattinson* McDermott Will & Emery Amy A. Null, Esq. WilmerHale Maria O'Brien, J.D. Boston University School of Law Stephen Popper SageView Advisory Group Patricia Richardson, J.D. US Department of Labor Employee Benefits Security Administration Jasmin Sethi Sethi Clarity Advisers Martina B. Sherman* DeBofsky Sherman Casciari Reynolds P.C. Todd A. Solomon, Esq. McDermott Will & Emery LLP Christian Weller, PhD John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies, UMass Boston *Indicates a member of the Illinois Committee UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms