Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Student Resources Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Research Student Success Center Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Info for Students Welcome to the College of Science and Mathematics, the most diverse college at UMass Boston! Here you can prepare for a career in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) fields, either aiming to enter the workforce or to continue on to graduate or professional school. CSM has eight departments, programs, and schools offering a total of fourteen different undergraduate degrees and eleven graduate degrees. For Prospective Students For information on application requirements, campus tours, tuition, and admission status, visit the Admissions website. For more information on our Freshman Success Communities, click here . For more information for Transfer Students, click here . For Current Students Click the links below for answers to our most commonly asked questions! If the information you are seeking is not listed below, please visit the Student Success Center website for further information. How do I get onto the Dean's List? Does CSM offer any teacher preparation programs for middle or high school science or math education? Are there any science/math specific scholarship opportunities available? Is there an Honors Program for CSM? Are there any honor societies of which I can become a part? Where do I go for advising? Will I get credit for College Level Examination Program (CLEP) or Advanced Placement (AP)? CSM Dean's List As of Fall 2012, the following are the criteria for Dean's List in CSM: complete at least 12 graded credits with a GPA of 3.5 or above and no grades below a C. Please note that a course with a grade of "P" does not count towards the 12 graded credits. Science and Mathematics Teacher Education Opportunities UMass Boston offers teacher licensure programs for many different subjects through the College of Education and Human Development. Two useful documents for students intending to pursue licensure are: Teacher Licensure for Undergraduates at UMass Boston Undergraduate Program Planning Sheet (Elementary and Middle/Secondary Education) For more information, stop by or call the Teacher Education Office (617.287.7625, W-1-051). In addition, CSM and CEHD now offer the UTeach Program, a grant-funded program aimed at training STEM high school teachers. Please see the UTeach website for details. Scholarship Opportunities There are scholarships available within CSM! Some are need-based, but there are a number of merit-based scholarships as well. Scholarship Description Christine Armett-Kibel Scholarship Undergraduate women, juniors or seniors, all of CSM. At least 55 credits with at least 12 at UMass Boston, must be US Citizens. Evaluate on academic record, promise and determination, and intention to pursue a career in the sciences. Ella Brehm Scholarship Chemistry, mathematics, CS/IT, physics, biology. Graduate of Boston Public Schools, MA resident, with 30 credits or less and GPA of 3.0 or above. Northrop Grumman Scholarship (formerly known as Litton Industries) Junior/senior standing. Math, CS/IT, or any physical science. Evaluate based on scholastic achievement and character. Alton J. Brann Endowed Scholarships Biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics. 30-90 credits. Harold Weinberg Memorial Scholarship Shared by CLA and CSM. High academic performance, athletic excellence and the fellowship of sports, spirit of the challenge, strong sense of competition, inspiration to the team spirit. Not awarded every year. To apply for any of these scholarships, please go here . The application deadline will be announced in Spring semester. Honors College UMass Boston has an Honors College, which is a university-wide program open to all students (including those in CSM). The Honors College offers the academically talented student special challenges and opportunities. For complete information, see the Honors Program or visit the Honors Program Office (Healey Library-8-003). Honor Societies For first-year students: Alpha Lambda Delta is a national honor society for first-year students. If student maintain a 3.5 or higher GPA (on a 4.0-point scale) during their first year at the University of Massachusetts Boston, they are invited to join this prestigious society. ALD is celebrating its 90th year and induction of its one millionth student. For all high-achieving students: UMass Boston chapter of Golden Key International Honor Society CSM Advising Resources For Freshmen , especially those participating in the CSM Freshman Success Community Program, ​the CSM Student Success Center (S-2-060) should be your first stop. The SSC advisors can help you with your academic questions as well as assist you in connecting to other university resources. For Declared CSM Majors: Your faculty advisor is your primary resource for navigating your academic pathway.  This person is assigned to you when you declare your major, and you will need to see him or her each semester before you register for the following semester's classes.  Your advisor is listed on your Student Center page in WISER. You are also welcome to contact or visit the SSC for advising. For Undecided CSM Students: You are assigned an advisor in the University Advising Center (Campus Center, 1st Floor, Room 1100) until you declare a major. You should discuss which classes to take with your assigned University Advisor. You are also welcome to contact or visit the SSC for advising. Click here for some useful University Advising Center resources, such as the Course Wizard, GPA Calculator, and more. Please note that all students must declare a major before they reach 60 credits! For general questions about policies, procedures, the General Education requirements, or other academic-related issues for which you need an advising appointment, the Student Success Center is a valuable resource.  They are located in the Science Center, 2nd Floor, Room 060. Test Credits: AP and CLEP For general information about CLEP, click here . To see which exams count for which courses or credits, see the . To see which Advanced Placement (AP) exam and score counts for which class(es), see the Advanced Placement Credit Policy Chart. Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms