- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Virtual Information Sessions Prepare UMass Boston Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Virtual Information Sessions Prepare UMass Boston Faculty for Remote Semester 08/17/2020 |
    Vanessa Chatterley A series of virtual information sessions are equipping UMass Boston faculty with the tools and resources necessary to engage with students during the remote fall 2020 semester. The live webinar sessions, called Teach Fall 2020, offer faculty the opportunity to hear from colleagues regarding best practices for remote learning and student engagement. Since its launch earlier this summer, Teach Fall 2020 has brought together faculty members from all departments to discuss various strategies to promote engagement with students in a remote modality. Associate CIO Apurva Mehta said that each session brings between 125 and 140 faculty members. “We were truly surprised by the turnout. This gave us the momentum to continue. We ask the faculty on the topic they would like to learn more about and try and host a live event on that topic. More importantly we get faculty to present, which I think adds a lot of value,” said Mehta, who hosts the sessions with Judy Goleman, director of the Office for Faculty Development; Carol Sharicz, director of Center for Innovative Teaching; and Mya Mangawang, vice provost for Strategic Initiatives. Sessions have also explored methods to remotely support students’ overall well-being, especially in light of recent events. “So much has transpired since February that has impacted our students. The goal of this event [was] to share with our faculty members the impact COVID-19 and the Black Lives Matter movement has had and how faculty might recognize and assist our students in the coming fall semester,” said Mehta. Most recently, Teach Fall 2020 introduced a two-part session earlier this month. The first session, entitled “Synchronous and Asynchronous Approaches for Active Remote Learning,” explored different learning modalities and how to address the unique instructional challenges that arise from remote learning. “This is a topic that received many questions from faculty, so we decided to build a program around it where faculty can learn from others some of the modalities for teaching for the fall semester,” said Mehta. Four faculty members presented during the 90-minute session: Amy Cook, Associate Professor, Department Chair and Graduate Program Director of Counseling in the College of Education and Human Development (CEHD); Andrew Perumal, Associate Professor, Department of Economics in the College of Liberal Arts; Denise Patmon, Associate Professor of Education, Department of Curriculum and Instruction in CEHD; and Werner Kunz, Associate Professor of Marketing in the College of Management. “What I do is set expectations for a shared learning and safe environment,” said Cook, whose presentation addressed student-centered and trauma-focused teaching as a foundation of online learning. “That’s the foundation of how I approach my teaching; it’s really a shared experience.” Perumal, who has taught an asynchronous summer course called Introduction to Macroeconomics over the past four years, used his experience to provide faculty with tips to engage with students during the remote fall 2020 semester. “What I’ve been playing around with quite a bit in the last few weeks is really thinking about how I can translate some of the lessons I’ve learned … and how some of those tricks that I’ve gathered can then translate into giving us a way to think about blending asynchronous and synchronous for the fall,” said Perumal, calling it a “work in progress.” The presentations were followed by a Q&A session in which faculty were invited to ask the four faculty panelists for advice and suggestions regarding their own experiences with remote teaching/learning. The ongoing theme of the questions revolved around fostering a connection with students, especially in larger virtual classrooms where the opportunity may not present itself as often. The second part of the session, called “Hands-on Workshop on Synch and Asynch Application to Your Own Course Module,” encouraged faculty members to share learning goals and discuss effective learning strategies to achieve those goals. The interactive session was spearheaded by Carol Sharicz and e-learning support facilitators, who provided feedback throughout the discussion. Upcoming sessions for Teach Fall 2020 will explore strategic implementation of Blackboard, Learning Original, VoiceThread, Zoom, EdTech, and Echo. More information about these sessions, as well as recordings of past sessions, can be found on UMass Boston’s eLearning and Instructional Design’s page . About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms