Biotechnology Professional PSM - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Biotechnology Professional Science MS Home Academics Majors & Programs Biotechnology Professional PSM Request Info Loading... Take your life sciences career to the next level. UMass Boston's Biotechnology Professional Science Master's (PSM) is designed for life sciences technicians who want to take their career to the next level. Unlike a thesis-based master's, this program develops applied skills to equip you to make management decisions. Specialize in an area of interest, such as physiology, cell and molecular, biochemistry, or genetics and genomics. Then take business courses and complete a professional internship to gain practical, hands-on experience. Whether you complete the Biotech PSM on a full-time or part-time schedule, you'll graduate with the knowledge and connections to become a leader in the fast-growing life sciences field. Professional Internship The professional internship allows students to apply their training to the workplace and increase their linkages to employers. Since a crucial element of the PSM track is the professional internship, we prefer applicants who have identified a host firm/agency to support the internship (or whose application materials indicate that the applicant has carefully considered potential firm/agency hosts). Most students arrange to conduct their internship at their current job. The UMass Boston Office of Career Services can help you secure an internship if needed. Your internship must include technical writing and oral presentations, culminating in a final oral public presentation and report. The final presentation follows the typical format of scientific seminars which have a goal of informing and educating attendees about the topic of the internship project. For example, the seminar would likely have an introduction to the topic being investigated, materials and methods used during the internship, and a discussion of what was accomplished and how this might apply to future work. We expect students to devote the equivalent of approximately 20 hours a week for one semester (240 hours) to their internship project. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Test Scores: GRE Letters of Recommendation: 3 Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall; October 1 (priority deadline) or November 1 (final deadline) for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Contact Graduate Program Director Linda Huang Linda.Huang [at] umb.edu (617) 287-6674 Alexa MacPherson Alexa.MacPherson [at] umb.edu (617) 287-6603 Biology Learn more about UMass Boston's Biology department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Biology College of Science & Mathematics Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Science and Mathematics. Explore Now Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms