Grc - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Hardware & Labs Labs Grc Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Hardware Purchase Request A Computer Get IT Equipment Loaners Repair Adaptive Computer Lab Labs Bookit Cart Chromebooks Design Faculty Info Grc Gul Hardware Hours Langlab Policies Reservations Staff Student Info Print Surplus Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Graduate Research Center (GRC) About the GRC The GRC offers versatile workspaces for individual and collaborative work, writing, research, and study for graduate students. Enjoy a naturally lit space with windows overlooking Boston Harbor. The center features Windows and Macintosh computers with internet access and various software for analysis and editing. Facilities include a conference table and a full-color Wepa printing kiosk with a dedicated scanner, perfect for all your printing needs. Resources Available Listing of Software Available at the GRC Windows Software Microsoft Software MS Office MS Project MS Visual Studio Web Browsers Google Chrome Firefox Adobe Software Acrobat DC Animate Audition DreamWeaver Illustrator InCopy InDesign Lightroom Photoshop PremierPro Statistical and Data Analysis Software IBM SPSS STATA SAS NVIVO R, and R Studio PowerBI Winbugs Tableau Tableau Prep Geographic Information System (GIS) Software ArcGIS Molecular Visualization Software PyMOL Macintosh Software Microsoft Software MS Office Web Browsers Google Chrome Firefox Adobe Software Acrobat DC Animate Audition DreamWeaver Illustrator InCopy InDesign Lightroom Photoshop PremierPro Statistical and Data Analysis Software IBM SPSS STATA Color Printing and Scanning at the GRC Wepa Printing & Scanning: Graduate students can use a full-color Wepa printing kiosk, located in the GRC. It is equipped with a dedicated scanner for scanning to print or cloud applications. Visit the Print on Campus page for details. Poster Printing: Graduate students are eligible to print one free large-format poster per semester for course-related presentations or projects. This service is provided in partnership with Quinn Graphics. Please visit the GRC and ask the front desk consultant for a poster form. Complete the form and bring the form and image to Quinn Graphics: located in the Quinn Administration Building, Lower Level, Room 24. Graduate Student Resources Visit the Graduate Student Resources page for a list of resources to help you during your graduate program. Where is the GRC? The GRC is located on the fifth floor of the Joseph P. Healey Library, Room 026, down the corridor to the right of the elevators. Fall 2024 Hours of Operation September 2 through December 20 Monday - Friday 9 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Saturday & Sunday Closed Holidays - Closed Monday, October 14 Indigenous People‘s Day , Closed Monday, November 11 Juneteenth, Closed Thursday & Friday, November 28–29 Thanksgiving Recess Consultant Assistance Our consultants are here to help during GRC hours. Please note that they cannot provide tutorial services or extensive individual assistance. To make the most of your visit, please: Familiarize yourself with the software by attending workshops and utilizing free access to LinkedIn Learning . Bring your textbook, lecture notes, assignment, and any computer instructions from your instructor. For academic assistance, please reach out to your instructor, faculty advisor, or the academic support personnel of your college. Policies and Procedures To visit the Graduate Research Center, you must be an enrolled graduate student at the university. Please present your valid Student ID with a current semester sticker to the consultant on duty as proof of your active status. Acceptable Use Computer hardware and software operated by Division of IT are the property of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The computing resources are intended solely for the administrative and academic needs of the University of Massachusetts Boston and may not be used for other purposes. Software and File Management Guidelines Authorized Software Only : You may only run software that has been authorized by the IT department. If your professor has assigned a software package (for example, accompanying your textbook) that can't run on the lab machines, please have your professor contact computerlabs@umb.edu . Do Not Alter Software or Settings : Please do not delete software or change configuration settings to ensure the machine works properly for the next user. File Saving Reminder : Although you can save files to the desktop, please be aware that they will be lost when the system is logged off. To avoid this, save your files to a cloud storage platform or email them to yourself. Software Requests: Faculty who have questions concerning software availability on GRC computers should submit a request to computerlabs@umb.edu . Contact Us For questions or concerns, please contact: Ananta Sinha —Supervisor, Computer Operation Systems, and Services Phone: 617.287.3095 Location: Healey Library, UL, Room 40 Contact the GRC directly: Phone: 617.287.5272 Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms