Undergraduate Courses - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Center for Academic Excellence Undergraduate Courses Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Tutoring Programs Undergraduate Courses Academic Coaching Peer Mentoring Program Citing Correctly A Self Check Tool For Students Undergraduate English as a Second Language Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Critical Reading and Writing (CRW) Critical Analysis courses introduce students to the principles of college-level learning and provide them with intensive practice in the use of those principles. Critical Reading and Writing: CRW 112 The goals and capabilities of Critical Reading and Writing (CRW) 112 are the same as those of First-Year Seminars. Students learn how to engage with and evaluate texts and issues drawn from the social sciences, humanities, and physical sciences. This course includes computer lab and library research components. In CRW 112 – Critical Thinking II, students gain experience in the processes of intellectual inquiry as it is practiced in the liberal arts and sciences.  Based on the course’s theme, students analyze and interpret readings drawn from different disciplines in the college curriculum. Students learn to distinguish the methods authors use in developing their ideas, and the differences and similarities among perspectives of various authors, as well as to recognize implications and to question authors' purposes. 3 Lect Hrs, 3 Credits. This course should be followed by a First-Year Seminar. Recent CRW 112 course topics include: Decision-making in the Courts and Other Contexts, Exploring Identity, and Reading American Culture . Contact the Center for Academic Excellence  for information on current CRW 112 topics and schedules. First-Year Seminars The Center for Academic Excellence offers first-year courses that focus on critical reading, the analysis of texts, and the writing of academic papers. These courses introduce students to the principles of college-level learning and provide them intensive practice in the use of those principles in their other courses. CRW 112 introduces students to the elements of academic thinking, with materials drawn from courses across the liberal arts curriculum. The topically focused First-Year Seminars offer instruction in the capabilities spelled out by General Education and are a natural progression for students who have begun a course of study with CRW 112 or ESL Center courses. SEMINR 114G Investigations across the Curriculum SEMINR 120G Mind-Body Connection SEMINR 125G Defining Freedom SEMINR 126G Aging & Wisdom SEMINR 127G Food Matters UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms