Getting Started - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Study Abroad Getting Started Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Getting Started Diversity & Inclusion FAQs Student Stories Study Abroad Programs Faculty Taught International Programs Requirements Financing Study Abroad Health & Safety Before You Go When You Return Fellowships Provost's Office Getting Started Need advising? In-person or virtual advising appointments for study away: Schedule a time to Meet with us! Open-Advising Wednesdays: Study away open advising for students! Meet with a study away advisor for any general or quick questions, learn about the process, or continue your application. Check-in at the front desk in Global Programs. Every Wednesday through Dec. 4, 2024 9:30am-12:30pm Office of Global Programs Campus Center, 2nd Floor Suite 2100 Steps to Study Abroad Don't know where to begin? Follow the steps below. Why Study Abroad? Hear from UMass Boston students about their experiences studying abroad on our blog site . How to go about leaving the country and traveling abroad? Tips for students and families Create your UMass Boston Abroad Profile Verify Eligibility & Academics Apply for your passport now if you don’t have one! If you have one, check the expiration date, so you have plenty of time to renew it before you apply to your program Identify Your Goals Choose your Program FAQ's Diversity & Inclusion Resources Understand the Application Process & Apply Prepare to Go Abroad . Goals for Study Abroad Before you start looking at programs, ask yourself “ Why do I want to go abroad? ” What do you hope to gain personally, professionally, and academically? What kind of academic experience do you want? Classroom or field study? Internship or research? Do you want to study a foreign language? Most programs offer courses taught in English, even when English isn't the primary language of the host country. How long do you want to be abroad? Programs are available from 10-days to 1-year. What do you need outside of the classroom to be your best self?  Consider climate, food, student life, university and city size, mental health and physical health needs. Where do you feel the most successful and what could that look like abroad? What is your budget?  We offer programs that are less than, equal to, and more than UMass in-state tuition.  You can use your UMass financial aid to pay for education abroad! Travelling Abroad 101: Sourced with GoOverseas Top 10 for your first time abroad: Talk to your loved ones. Invite your family to attend an advising meeting with the Office of Global Programs to learn more about study abroad. Share this resource page with them so they can prepare alongside with you for your time abroad. Send them the link to the A Parent Guide to Study Abroad Prepare your travel documents: You will need a valid passport , and most countries will not let you enter if there is less than 6 months validity on your passport. Learn how to apply for a US passport here ! Depending on your program location and length of your program, you may need a visa . You cannot apply for the visa until you are accepted to your program abroad. See the Before You Go section of this website for information in the visa. Research your destination: Where are you interested in studying abroad? Read through past students experiences there, contact study abroad alumni (contact lists are available on exchange programs) , look up resources online about what life is like in your selected destination, look into the healthcare & safety of your country, etc. Flights and transportation: UMass Boston works with StudentUniverse on student discounted flights . Check out this resource from GoAbroad on What to Know Before Flying Internationally . Remember that flights get more expensive the closer you are to your departure date. 10 Reasons Why You Should Study Abroad 1. Earn academic credit toward your UMass Boston degree, while traveling the world! With planning, you can take courses specific to your major(s), minor, general education, or elective requirements. You may also do internships and independent study projects abroad, with approval from your academic department. All grades and credits from abroad will become part of your transcript and be applied toward your degree, as long as you follow the academic policies and procedures for study abroad. 2. Enhance your resume Studying abroad will set you apart from other graduates in the increasingly competitive global job marketplace.  Did you know that more than 50% of students entering college want to study abroad, while fewer than 5% actually do? Or, that fewer than 10% of state university students study overseas while more than 60% of private college students do? Be counted among the growing number of UMass Boston students to successfully achieve this goal. 3. Immerse yourself in another culture Studying abroad is a unique opportunity to actually live in another culture, not simply be a tourist or observer. Being a student in another country allows you an opportunity to experience the traditions, culture, and society from the inside. 4. Improve your foreign language skills Intimidated by another language? Maybe you're ready to become fluent in your second or even third language? Everyone can enhance their language skills when studying abroad. Learn a language by living it, not by reading it in a textbook, and complete your language requirement, abroad. English only? Many programs take place in English-only institutions, such as universities in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, South Korea, Japan, the West Indies and more. Other programs offer the opportunity to take courses in English in a non-English speaking country. 5. Make new friendships that will last a lifetime You are likely to become "globally-minded" by studying abroad because you will have the advantage of meeting people from other cultures and countries. You will make lifetime friends who are from all over the U.S., your host country, and around the world. You will be a personal ambassador and link to the U.S for those in your host country, and will bring that global mindedness back to friends and family members who have never been abroad. 6. Gain a new perspective about the U.S. See your home from the perspective of others. You will gain a more informed perspective on world affairs and the global community when you engage in conversations with students and citizens from your host country and other countries. You will begin to understand the range of opinions and complexities when you're in a totally different place in the world. You will bring those insights home when you return. 7. Studying abroad is affordable! Study abroad usually does cost more than studying on campus, but, with planning, all undergraduate students can afford to go abroad. If you currently receive financial aid, your aid can be applied to your program abroad. There are also scholarships (need- and merit-based), grants, and low-interest loans available to students studying abroad. The costs of education abroad programs vary. It is possible to find a program that fits your budget. 8. Gain invaluable life-changing and life-enhancing skills. Increased self-confidence, independence, self-sufficiency, patience, adaptability, cross-cultural communications skills, and a willingness to take on new challenges are all examples of the many personal benefits of studying abroad. The skills you gain while studying abroad will last a lifetime. 9. Impress Graduate schools & Employers! Your experiences abroad as an undergraduate will enhance your application and give you additional information that helps you stand apart in the selection and/or hiring process. Refer to reason #2: "Studying abroad will set you apart from other graduates in the increasingly competitive global job marketplace. The skills you gain while living abroad will give you an advantage in just about any career field." 10. Have fun! Meet new people, try new foods, have new adventures! Take advantage of your time abroad to expand your horizons academically and personally. At the end of a summer, semester or year abroad, come home filled with stories about your experiences, and excited to share them with others! UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms