Reenrollment - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Policies Reenrollment Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Academic Standing Reenrollment Attendance Repeat Change Name Second Degree Previous Degree Course Reuse Sequencing Policies Credit Load University Withdrawal FERPA Grade Submission Graduate Student Statute Limitations Incomplete NA Grade Pass Fail Withdrawal Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Re-Enrollment Policy Undergraduate Re-Enrollment Process Re-Enrollment Checklist Students who wish to return to the university and resume their studies must complete the appropriate re-enrollment application. If you are not sure what Re-Enrollment Application you should submit, please email reg.forms@umb.edu include your full name & Student ID number. Our Forms Team will direct you to the correct application. Good Academic Standing: Students who leave the University in good standing may resume their studies by completing the General Undergraduate Re-enrollment application.  You will be notified in writing of your re-enrollment status. The General application will be reviewed in 2-4 business days If your request is approved, your application will be processed and signed by the Registrar’s Office. DocuSign will email you a signed copy of your application confirming completion of your request. You will be able to log into WISER after you have been approved. If you don’t remember your credentials please use the Student ID and Email look up tools. If you need help resetting your password please contact the IT Help Desk Suspended or Dismissed Standing: Students who have been suspended or dismissed from the University and wish to resume their education should complete the Undergraduate Studies Re-enrollment application; write a letter of appeal addressed to the Standards and Credits Committee of their college or program. Please follow the instructions on the application for further details and deadlines. The Undergraduate Studies re-enrollment application will be reviewed by a committee. Processing time varies. If you have questions about a submitted application please email tim.blackman@umb.edu Students in good standing who would like to re-enroll, and change their major/college to the College of Management or Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences: Students who are in good standing, want to re-enroll, and would like to change their major to the College of Management or Nursing should complete the re-enrollment application for that change of college. Please follow the instructions on the application for further details and deadlines. The College of Management (CM) Re-Enrollment Application will be reviewed by a committee. Processing time varies. If you have questions about a submitted application please email upo@umb.edu Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences (MCNHS) Re-Enrollment Application will be reviewed by a committee. All applicants will be notified through email of the decision directly from the Manning College staff within a month of the deadline   If you have questions about a submitted application please email CNHSStudentServices@umb.edu All undergraduate re-enrollment applications can be found on our Undergraduate Forms page Please note: All previous course work at the University remains part of the permanent record for students who have been re-enrolled, and the cumulative average includes all prior grades, regardless of how much time elapsed between enrollments. Any transfer course work completed after leaving the university will be evaluated upon re-enrollment. Graduate Student Re-Enrollment Process Graduate degree candidates must maintain continuous registration, either by enrolling for course, capstone, thesis, or dissertation credits or by enrolling in the program fee course (CAS 600). Students who did not maintain continuous enrollment and want to re-enroll should submit a graduate readmission application to their graduate program director. The application is then reviewed by the Office of Graduate Studies and Admissions and submitted to the Registrar’s Office for processing if approved. Once readmitted, students will need to pay a program fee for each inactive semester, to a maximum of six semesters. Re-enrolled students must meet the program requirements that pertain at the time of their re-enrollment. Courses older than seven years at the time of re-enrollment cannot be used toward the degree, except with prior written permission of the graduate program director at the time of re-enrollment. The graduate readmission application can be found on our Graduate Forms page. See also: Graduate Statute of Limitations Policy Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms