Counseling MEd / CAGS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Counseling MEd / CAGS Home Academics Majors & Programs Counseling MEd / CAGS Request Info Loading... Preparing thoughtful and responsive school counselors to work effectively in urban schools and communities. UMass Boston's Counseling MEd / CAGS program is committed to the preparation of highly qualified School Counselors who effectively address the needs of children, adults, and families of diverse cultural and ethnic backgrounds, abilities, and needs. Located within an urban university, the program is dedicated to the training of professionals who most likely will work with, and provide counseling and related activities to, individuals representing an urban and diverse population. Online or In Person The on-campus program offers blended courses with both on campus and online coursework. Classes meet once per week during the fall and spring semesters. Courses are typically scheduled back to back at 4 p.m. (EST) and 7 p.m. to reduce commute time to campus. Students typically attend campus classes no more than twice per week. Summer classes are delivered online, typically after 6 p.m. (EST), once per week. The online program is predominantly online, with the exception of two courses completed in-person during the first summer semester over a two-week intensive session. The Masters of Education in School Counseling (Counseling MEd) at the University of Massachusetts Boston is accredited by the Masters in Psychology and Counseling Accreditation Council (MPCAC) for the period of September 2024 through September 2032. Why Apply to UMass Boston's Counseling MEd / CAGS Program? The Counseling Program also includes training opportunities to become a Career Development Facilitator (CDF), which may lead to employment opportunities in a variety of settings that provide career coaching, counseling, and related services. Students also have the option of adding an adjustment counseling concentration to their plan of study, which requires two additional courses, as well as additional internship hours. The adjustment counseling concentration allows students to be eligible for the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education K-12 initial level licensure as a school adjustment counselor. At the end of the program, you will be eligible to apply for licensure to work as a school counselor in Massachusetts provided you complete internship hours in Massachusetts. Our program meets the educational requirements for licensure in Massachusetts. Please check with an admissions counselor at csp.admissions@umb.edu to determine if our program meets educational requirements for practice in your state. Regardless, internship hours must be satisfactorily completed in Massachusetts to certify that you have completed a state-approved program. Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or above Graduate GPA of 3.5 or above (required for CAGS applicants only) One (1) year of related experience (including volunteer work) in education, human services, or a related field Two (2) letters of recommendation Writing sample (optional) Other: interview may be requested Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: January 2 (priority) and February 15 (final) for summer Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis prior to the February 15 deadline. We recommend submitting your application as early as possible for the best chance of admittance. Most spots are already filled by the application deadline of February 15. Note: If you’re having difficulty completing or submitting any application requirements, contact csp.admissions@umb.edu before the application deadline to discuss potential submission extensions or exceptions. Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Required Courses (60 Credits) COUNSL 601 - Research and Evaluation in Psychology 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 605 - Principles of Vocational, Educational, and Psychological Assessment ; 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 608 - Psychopathology and Diagnosis 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 613 - Vocational Development and Career Information 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 614 - Counseling Theory and Practice I 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 617 - Child and Adolescent Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 620 - Life Span Human Development 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 630 - Orientation to Professional School Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 632 - Collaborative Consultation in Schools 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 633 - Professional, Ethical, and Legal Issues in School Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 635 - Behavioral Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 650 - Group Counseling for Children and Adolescents 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 653 - Sociocultural Considerations in Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 660 - College Readiness Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 665 - Trauma and Crisis Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 688 - Practicum 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 698 - Internship 6 Credit(s) - complete two semesters Additional adjustment counseling courses: COUNSL 631 - Principles and Practices of School Adjustment Counseling COUNSL 674 - Psychopharmacology for Counselors Note: The number and list of required courses for each student enrolled in the Counseling CAGS program is set after review of their graduate coursework. Graduation Criteria Counseling MEd Complete 60 credits from 18 required courses. Capstone: Complete a capstone project consisting of three components: (1) an accountability school counseling practice, (2) a solution-focused case study, and (3) a parent and/or teacher workshop or professional presentation Complete a portfolio collection of Internship work samples is required to demonstrate skills and competencies in four areas: counseling, consultation, coordination, and curriculum. Field experience: Complete 100 hours of practicum and 600 hours of internship. Exam: Prior to enrolling in the internship, students completing an internship and seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass the literacy portion of the Massachusetts Test of Educator Licensure (MTEL). Minimum grade: No content-based courses with a grade below B- may be applied toward the program. No practicum and internship courses with a grade below B may be applied toward the program. Residency: No more than six credits from another institution may be applied toward the program. Transfer courses must be approved by the graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Six years. Counseling MEd: Adjustment Counseling Concentration Complete 66 credits from 20 required courses. Capstone: Complete a capstone project consisting of three components: (1) an accountability school counseling practice, (2) a solution-focused case study, and (3) a parent and/or teacher workshop or professional presentation Complete a portfolio collection of Internship work samples is required to demonstrate skills and competencies in four areas: counseling, consultation, coordination, and curriculum. Field experience: Complete 850 hours of fieldwork and 600 hours of internship. Exam: Prior to enrolling in the internship, students completing an internship and seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass the literacy portion of the Massachusetts Test of Educator Licensure (MTEL). Minimum grade: No content-based courses with a grade below B- may be applied toward the program. No practicum and internship curses with a grade below B may be applied toward the program. Residency: No more than six credits from another institution may be applied toward the program. Transfer courses must be approved by the graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Six years Counseling CAGS Complete a minimum of 18 to 30 credits from accepted prior graduate coursework and additional courses determined by the graduate program director. The program of study is individually designed, based on prior graduate coursework completed within seven years of matriculation in the CAGS program at the University of Massachusetts Boston. A minimum of 18 credits are required for graduates of a counseling program at UMass Boston; a minimum of 30 credits is required for graduates of all other counseling programs. To meet licensure requirements, more than 30 credits may be required. Fieldwork: Complete a 100-hour practicum and 450 to 600-hour internship. To be eligible for the CAGS, applicants must have completed their master’s degree coursework in counseling within the last 7 years. Minimum grade: No content courses with a grade below B- and practicum/internship courses with a grade below B may be applied toward the program. Statute of limitations: Six years. Related Programs Mental Health Counseling MS Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data Counseling MEd/CAGS Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data Contact Graduate Program Director Tim Poynton tim.poynton [@] umb.edu (617) 287-3326 Counseling & School Psychology Graduate Programs csp.admissions [at] umb.edu Counseling & School Psychology Learn more about UMass Boston's Counseling & School Psychology department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Counseling & School Psychology College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) SARA Compliance, Disclosure & Dispute Resolution UMass Boston programs are designed to meet the requirements for licensure or certification in Massachusetts. Please contact your state licensing or certification board to determine whether the program meets the requirements for licensure or certification in other states. Learn More about SARA UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms