In The Media - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Peace, Democracy & Development In The Media Menu menu Menu About In The Media Key Areas Publications Workshops In the Media The Bandit Shackles of sub-Saharan Africa › Radio Študent | March 22, 2022 Director of the Center for Peace, Democracy and Development Darren Kew was interviewed by Slovenian radio station, Radio Študent, about the recent wave of coups in Africa. The Election Is Over. How Did America Do? › Politico | January 10, 2021 Center for Peace, Democracy, and Development Executive Director and McCormack Graduate School Associate Professor Darren Kew is quoted in this piece on whether four years of Trump changed experts' assessment of American democracy? "The Trump presidency dealt a body blow to American democracy — certainly not fatal, but setting the stage for future challenges to the system that could continue to undermine it. My biggest fears are for the long-term impacts of all the concerted efforts he and his team have made throughout the campaign to cast doubt on the election system itself," Kew said. Solutions to Violence › Forward Radio | August 05, 2019 Center for Peace, Democracy, and Development Executive Director and McCormack Graduate School Associate Professor Darren Kew talks about his international work with conflict resolution and peace building. Center for Peace, Democracy, and Development Healey Library, 10th Floor, Room 12 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.7489 darren.kew@umb.edu The center is affiliated with the John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms