Community Engagement Initiatives - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Student Leadership & Community Engagement Community Engagement Initiatives Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities Government Student Leadership & Community Engagement About Us Anti Racism Resources Beacon Awards Beacon Voyages For Service Black Community Engagement Series Civic Action Fellowship Community Faculty Firstyear Leadership Institute Grow Jumpstart Leadership Foundations Community Engagement Initiatives Student Testimonials StrongWomen Media Student Arts & Events Council Student Activities Welcome Week The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Community Engagement Initiatives Community Engagement Initiatives Volunteer Fairs UMass Boston welcomes our community partners on campus to recruit volunteers twice a year during the Welcome Week events in September & January. This is an opportunity for our partners, students, faculty, and staff to gather and learn about ways they can engage in the community and collaborate on shared initiatives. To get on our invitation list email community.engagement@umb.edu The Fall 2024 Volunteer Fair will take place September 11, 2024 from 11am-1pm on the Campus Center Terrace. Please register here: Fall 2024 Volunteer Fair - UMBeInvolved (campuslabs.com) Days of Action An annual tradition, the Fall and Spring Days of Action engage more than 100 students in service to the Boston community.  Join us to learn more about Boston, meet other UMass Boston students, and give back to our community. To learn more about volunteering, email community.engagement@umb.edu . If you are a nonprofit interested in hosting students for the Day of Action, please email us to discuss your needs. The Fall 2024 Day of Action will take place September 14, 2024. Please register here: Fall 2024 Day of Action - UMBeInvolved (campuslabs.com) Organize a Service Day Want to host a community service day for your student organization or department? These days are great for team building and contributing to your communities. Please email Community Engagement. Breaking the Cycle of Violence World Cafe Building a beloved community, building cultures of peace BCVI is an interdisciplinary academic, practitioner, student, and youth focused initiative seeking an understanding of violence in the greater Boston area by working collaboratively to identify, plan and implement effective strategies to address the culture of violence. Breaking the Cycle of Violence is a multi-sector approach to understanding violence in our communities, supporting mutual efforts, facilitating new strategies, and understanding the culture of violence that envelopes the community, through individual and collective action and understanding. Breaking the Cycle of Violence hosts multiagency multi-sector discussion meeting, creates and hosts ongoing roundtable discussions on the topic of violence, offers educational forums on the evolving understanding of the culture of violence, mentors graduate students in their scholarship, engages faculty across disciplines, and anticipates developing interdisciplinary courses on the culture of violence to be offered both internally as a part of the university curriculum and externally to the community. Previous topics have included: Red flags in relationships Do all lives matter? What is the role of policy in society? Please email Jacqueline.Lageson@umb.edu or DidUKnow@umb.edu for more information. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms