Meet The Team - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Provost's Office Central Business Unit Meet The Team Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Academic Integrity Academic Quality Assessment & Development (AQUAD) Annual Faculty Report (AFR) Centers & Institutes Central Business Unit Contact Meet The Team Contact Credit Hour Policy Department Chairs & Administrators Forms & Policies Intercampus Programs Master Academic Calendar Meet the Provost Meet the Dean of Faculty Provost's Staff Student Spotlight on Academic Affairs Meet the Team Thomas Miller Associate Vice Chancellor Academic Administration & Finance Email: Thomas.Miller@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.5604 Tom Miller conceived and now heads the Central Business Unit at UMass Boston.  Tom joined UMass Boston in 2017 as the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, Administrative and Financial Services and brings more than 30 years of leadership, management, business and administrative experience.  He has played a key role in transforming the university’s fiscal planning process, closing the $30M deficit, and helping establish a pathway towards achieving and sustaining a university budget that is structurally sound.  He received his BS degree in Marine Engineering from the United States Coast Guard Academy and completed dual MS degrees in Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering and Mechanical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He served over twenty years in the United States Coast Guard as a maritime safety and security professional.  After retiring, he took on serial positions as an environmental consultant and senior program analyst, as the Director of Business Development for Cubic Applications, Inc., Strategic Solutions Group, and as the Director of Administration and Research at the University of Rhode Island’s Graduate School of Oceanography. Tom grew up in Grants Pass, OR, and currently lives in Scituate, MA.  When he is not working, he enjoys boating, beaching, yard projects, and spending time with his wife Gail and two daughters, Annie and Erin. Suzanne O’Neil Director of Operations Email: Suzanne.ONeil@umb.edu Suzanne joined the CBU team in early 2021 as Business and Grant Services Manager after a year as Finance Manager with the Institute for Early Education. As a relative newcomer to UMass, her focus is providing excellent service to departments, institutes and centers under the Provost’s office and other units served by the CBU, and consistent, reliable leadership to the team. With over 20 years’ experience in communications, marketing, administration and operations, she brings a broad set of skills to the team, especially in project and data management, event planning, financial administration, budgeting, and presentations. A Boston native, Suzanne earned a BA from Suffolk University and an MPA from Northeastern. When not at work, she enjoys traveling to warm climates, experimenting with mixed media and hiking on local trails with her granddaughter. Patrick McCormack Business Services Manager Email: Patrick.McCormack@umb.edu Patrick joined CBU in November as a Business & Grants Services Manager after 20 years with the William Joiner Institute, 14 of those as Office Manager. Proficient in Summit OBIEE, HR Direct, Buyways, and departmental budget management, he brings to the CBU team many years of experience managing numerous grants and extensive, varied donor funds. In the two decades with the Joiner Institute Patrick has played a pivotal role in conferences, speaker and film series events, and workshops held by the Joiner Institute. He has extensive contacts across the University and excels at providing steady and reliable leadership for the CBU team and customer service skills to CBU clients. When Patrick’s not working, you’ll find him playing jazz tunes on his electric guitar. Shirley T. Williams Business Services Email: Shirley.Williams@umb.edu Shirley served as Office Manager for the Adult Literacy Resource Institute and the William Monroe Trotter Institute, and joined the Central Business Unit (CBU) as a Business and Grant Services Assistant II. She is deeply familiar with UMass software, systems, processes and procedures. After 17 years at the University, Shirley is well prepared to be part of the CBU team, as she’s skilled and efficient in multiple areas, including grants (pre and post), budget management, purchasing, expense reimbursements, event planning, communications, financial procedures, personnel actions and payroll. She has multiple contacts across the University and knows how to find solutions. When Shirley’s out of the office, you’ll find her designing and creating t-shirts, mugs, and other art for family and friends. Katie Bates Budget and Reporting Analyst Email: Catherine.Bates@umb.edu Katie Bates worked in the publishing industry for six years and over ten at or with higher education institutions. In her previous roles, she served as Program Director for the Center for Collaborative Leadership where she managed and executed professional development trainings for the Emerging Leaders Program, worked for the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative’s Global Executive Leadership Initiative in conjunction with USAID, and streamlined staffing needs for Boston area universities as a Program Manager at nextSource, Inc. She received her BA and MA in English Literature at UMass Boston with a focus on 19th century British Literature. In her spare time, she likes to read, bake, and volunteer as a virtual Job Coach with the YWCA Oahu’s Dress for Success Program. She lives on the south shore with her family, two cats (Scout and Boo), and dog (Mac). Megha Rooban Business Services Email: Megha.Rooban@umb.edu Megha joined the University in 2014 as a Receiving Teller for the Bursar’s Office, then moved to the Office of Sponsored Programs in 2019, where she served in a similar capacity. In the fall of 2021, Megha transferred to the CBU team to help provide administrative and business support services to various units in Academic Affairs. She is committed to teamwork and problem solving and is passionate about education as a lifelong learner.  Megha earned a bachelor’s degree from Ethiraj College, India, and is currently studying accounting and finance at UMass Boston. When she is not working, Megha enjoys cooking, playing chess, spending time with friends and family, and watching the sun rise and set. Mary Butler Business Services Email: Mary.Butler@umb.edu Mary joined the University in 1986 and worked exclusively in the Continuing and Professional Studies department until transferring to the CBU in July 2022. She enjoys working with her new team and has extensive knowledge of student financials and enrollment and has helped many students navigate their time at UMass Boston. Mary is well connected within the University and with the business community. In her free time Mary enjoys boating, gardening and spending time in Florida. Tanisha Isaac Business Services Email: Tanisha.Isaac@umb.edu Jamie Tull Business Services Email: Jamie.Tull@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms