Padraig Omalley - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Moakley Padraig Omalley Menu menu Menu Projects Padraig Omalley Publications Support Padraig O'Malley

John Joseph Moakley Distinguished Professor of Peace and Reconciliation, McCormack Graduate School Contact Phone: ( 617) 291-2403 Email: Padraig.OMalley@umb.edu Professional Publications & Contributions O'Malley, P. (2015). The Two-State Delusion: Israel and Palestine – A Tale of Two Narratives. NY: Viking/Penguin. O’Malley, P. (2007). Shades of Difference: Mac Maharaj & the Struggle for South Africa (with a 15,000-word foreword by Nelson Mandela). NY: Viking/Penguin. O’Malley, P. (Ed.). (2006). Sticks and Stones: Living with Uncertain Wars . Amherst, MA: University of Massachusetts Press. O’Malley, P. (Ed.). (1999). Southern Africa: The People’s Voices . Cape Town, South Africa: University of the Western Cape. O’Malley, P. (Ed.). (1994). Homelessness: New England and Beyond . Amherst, MA: University of Massachusetts Press. O’Malley, P. (1993). Uneven Paths: Advancing Democracy in Southern Africa . New Namibia Books. O’Malley, P. (1990). Biting at the Grave: The Irish Hunger Strikes and the Politics of Despair . Boston: Beacon Press; Belfast: Blackstaff Press. O’Malley, P. (1990). Northern Ireland: Questions of Nuance . Belfast: Blackstaff Press. O’Malley, P. (Ed.). (1989). The AIDS Epidemic: Private Rights and Public Interests . Boston: Beacon Press. O’Malley, P. (1983). The Uncivil Wars: Ireland Today. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company; London, Dublin and Belfast: Blackstaff Press. O’Malley, P. (1971). Irish Industry: Structure and Performance . Dublin: Gill & McMillan; New York: Barnes & Noble. Additional Information Padraig O’Malley is the John Joseph Moakley Distinguished Professor of Peace and Reconciliation at UMass Boston’s the John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies and author on topics related to divided societies. Born in Dublin, Ireland, O’Malley is an award-winning author and expert on democratic transitions and divided societies, with special expertise on Northern Ireland, South Africa, and Iraq. His latest book, The Two-State Delusion: Israel and Palestine – A Tale of Two Narratives , was published by Viking/Penguin Press in July 2015. His fifteen year documentation of the transition from Apartheid to democracy in South Africa, The Heart of Hope is available at the Nelson Mandela Foundation website. His work is archived at the South Africa History Association, University of Witwatersrand, South Africa; the Robben Island Museum, University of the Western Cape, South Africa; and the University of Massachusetts Boston, USA. O’Malley is also the founding editor of the New England Journal of Public Policy , a publication of UMass Boston’s John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies. Read more about O'Malley's awards and career as a facilitator/convener . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms