Waterfront Recreation - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Waterfront Recreation Home Athletics Recreation Waterfront Recreation Menu menu Menu Recreation Member Services Facilities & Hours Fitness Intramural Sports Informal Recreation Student Employment Instructional Offerings Waterfront Recreation Recreation and Marine Operations Relaunch Waterfront Activities THANK YOU FOR A GREAT SEASON! WATERFRONT IS CLOSED FOR THE SEASON We are excited to bring back waterfront programming to enhance your educational and recreational experience at UMass Boston. We hope to provide a safe environment for learning, recreation, and relief from the stresses of being a student, faculty, or staff member. We are also happy to offer these activities to the local community!! If you are a part of the UMB community, heavily discounted rates are available. The Greater Boston community can also enjoy these activities by purchasing a season pass or take advantage of our hourly rates!! Located on the beautiful Columbia Point next to UMass Boston at the Fox Point Dock. How-To Guides: How to Purchase a Season Pass Booking/reserving waterfront equipment All non-UMass Boston individuals will need to create an account first Check out the services we provide Waterfront Activities Kayaking: Explore the waters with our fleet of 12 – 10.5ft, 1 person Sea kayaks and 4 -  14 ft, 2 person Sea Kayaks. Perfect for solo adventures or paddling with a friend! Stand-Up Paddle boarding (SUP): Test your balance and soak up the sun on our 6 stand-up paddleboards. A great way to enjoy the scenery and get a full-body workout. Rowboats: Enjoy a leisurely day on the water with our 4 - 2 person rowboats. Ideal for a relaxing outing or a fun rowing experience. Sailing: Feel the wind in your sails with our 6 - 16ft Cape Cod Mercury Centerboard Sailboats . Whether you’re a seasoned sailor or new to the sport, our sailboats provide an exhilarating experience. Seasoned sailors must present a certification and/or pass an internal test before booking. Sailing Lessons: We offer instructional lessons for beginners who want to learn to sail. The goal is to have you sailing independently. THIS IS NOT A CERTIFYING COURSE. Sessions are held on Thursdays. Once purchased, please allow the Marine Ops team 72 hours to follow up on scheduling your sessions. Limited spots are available. Purchase sailing Lessons Hours of Operation Shoulder Season:  June 14-30th and September 6-15th Fri - Sun, 11am - 7pm Regular Season: July 3 - September 6th Wed - Sun, 11am - 7pm Season Passes and Hourly Rates Whether you're an avid water enthusiast or just looking to enjoy some fun in the sun, our passes offer unbeatable value and convenience. Special Offer for UMB Students: Current UMB students registered for fall 2024 and taking at least one credit course can utilize the waterfront equipment for FREE no additional membership required! Exciting Discounts for UMass Boston faculty/Staff/Alumni: HUGE 50% Discount for current recreation members! 10% Discount for UMass Boston, faculty, staff, and alumni without a current recreation membership. Use promo code ENDOFSUMMER to receive an additional 50% off your membership. Discounts are automatically applied when you log into our Recreation portal. Non UMass Boston Season Pass Rates: Individual: $200 Senior (62+), Military, Non-UMB College Student ): $100 Family (must be purchased in-person at the dock) : $350 You must use the proper ID to check in, ie. College ID, Military ID. Purchase Season Pass Season Pass Perks: FREE Equipment Rentals: Enjoy unlimited access to kayaks, stand-up paddleboards, rowboats, and sailboats all summer long. Hourly Rates: Not ready for a membership? No problem! We offer flexible hourly rates: Individual Kayaks, Tandem (2 person) Kayaks, Stand-Up Paddleboards, Rowboats (2 person): $25 *Sailboats (without an instructor): $50/2 hour reservation Reserve Equipment *Onsite assessment or sailing certification needed How-To Guides: How to Purchase a Season Pass Booking/reserving waterfront equipment All non-UMass Boston individuals will need to create an account first Don’t miss out on this incredible opportunity to explore the waters and create unforgettable memories. Grab your season pass today, and let’s make this summer one for the books! Rules, Regulations, and Weather Policies Marine Ops General Rules Here are the most frequently asked questions. Do you provide life jackets free of charge? Yes, we do. Life jackets are provided at no additional cost and must be worn at all times while on the water. What are the age requirements for using the waterfront equipment? Participants must be at least 18 years old to rent equipment. Minors (under 18) must be accompanied by a parent or guardian who will sign a waiver and supervise them. Are reservations required for using the equipment? Yes, reservations are required due to our limited fleet. What should I bring with me for a day on the water? We recommend bringing sunscreen, a hat, water, a towel, and appropriate clothing for water activities. You should also bring a valid ID for equipment rental. Is there a changing area or locker room available? No, we do not have changing areas, but we do have a few lockers to store belongings. What are the operating hours of the waterfront program? See Hours of operation section. Are there any safety guidelines I need to follow? Yes, safety is our top priority. All participants must wear life jackets, follow the instructions of our staff, and adhere to posted safety guidelines. Where should I park? Unfortunately, there is no parking at the dock. You can find out more information about parking by visiting the parking transportation webpage. Contact Us For membership related questions please email: UMBRec@umb.edu For Dock Operations please call 617.287.5404 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms