About Us - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Labor Resource Center About Us Menu menu Menu About Us Our People Undergraduate Programs Labor Extension Program The Boston Labor Conference Research & Impact James Green Life & Work Careers & Internships About Us The Labor Resource Center (LRC) is located within the College of Liberal Arts at the UMass Boston.  We engage in education and research that helps to understand the big issues facing working people today – growing inequality, low wages, discrimination, legal and political challenges,  and many others – while providing students, workers, and communities with the practical and analytical skills necessary for advancing economic and social justice.  The Center's work is carried out in two broad areas: Education: Labor-centered education helps us to not only critically understand the world of work and workers, but to build writing, research, analytic, and organizational skills.  We concentrate our educational efforts in three programs: Labor Studies BA Labor Studies Minor Labor Studies Certificate for emerging labor leaders. Labor Extension Program provides community-based worker education. Research: The Center’s research includes applied-participatory work, which involves collaborating with labor and community organizations, as well as academic research that explores the past, present and future of work, working-class experience, and labor organizing.  Students regularly work with faculty and staff on various projects involving: Low-wage employment Women in the construction trades Wage theft Building solidarity locally and internationally Many of our initiatives, including our role in the Policy Group for Tradeswomen Issues , combines education and research into a single project. The LRC has a long and distinguished history of contributions to the labor movement and the university. In 2010, we graduated our 150th student from the Labor Studies bachelor's degree program. From nationally renowned contributions to labor history to the regional impact of the "Labor at the Crossroads" series in the 1990's to action research for policy change on the issues of working families and economic development, the LRC has been on the frontlines for almost 30 years. James Green Memorial Library You can visit the James Green Memorial Library here . If you already have an account, you may check out books here.  If not, please contact us . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms