Environmental Sciences MS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Environmental Sciences MS Home Academics Majors & Programs Environmental Sciences MS Request Info Loading... Create a better future through cutting-edge research. Join UMass Boston's Environmental Sciences master's program and embrace the field as a metadiscipline that integrates the natural and social sciences. The School for the Environment is nationally recognized for its preparation of MS-level environmental practitioners whose research and practical knowledge advances natural resource conservation, climate change impacts and responses in coastal marine systems, new methods and technologies for the remote study of the planet, and the development of sustainable policies and management strategies to conserve and protect human-natural systems. In the Environmental Science MS with UMass Boston, you will: Develop a strong foundation in environmental science, gaining a comprehensive understanding of ecological systems, environmental processes, and the impact of human activities on the environment Acquire proficiency in scientific research methods, data collection, and analysis, allowing you to conduct fieldwork, laboratory experiments, and environmental monitoring Generate valuable insights and inform environmental decision-making Cultivate critical thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills necessary for effectively communicating scientific findings Career Possibilities Conduct research, collect and analyze environmental data, and assess the impact of human activities on ecosystems as an environmental scientist. Evaluate environmental policies and provide recommendations for developing and improving environmental policies as a policy analyst. Or, study the impacts of climate change and contribute to efforts aimed at addressing them as a climate change analyst. These are just a few of the possibilities. Become a(n): Environmental Scientist Environmental Consultant Conservation Specialist Environmental Policy Analyst Climate Change Specialist Environmental Educator Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Letters of Recommendation: 2 Other: Faculty advisor commitment, 3.0 undergraduate GPA Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum - Thesis Track Core Courses (8 Credits) ENVSCI 603 - Coasts and Communities I 4 Credit(s) ENVSCI 604 - Coasts and Communities II 4 Credit(s) Skills Course (3 Credits) Complete one from below. Another course may be taken with approval of the master’s thesis/project committee. ENVSCI 601 - Introduction to Probability and Applied Statistics 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 611 - Applied Statistics 3 Credit(s) Ethics Course (1 Credit) ENVSCI 600 - Responsible Conduct in Research 1 Credit(s) School for the Environment Seminar (2 Credits) All masters students must attend seminar each week throughout their enrollment in the program. A maximum of two credits will be earned from the seminar course. ENVSCI 791 - Seminar in Environmental Sciences 1 Credit(s) Thesis Course (6 Credits) ENVSCI 699 - Thesis Research 1-10 Credit(s) Electives (9 or 10 Credits) Select courses and independent research hours to fulfill 30 credit hour requirement. Students may select from any of the courses above not already taken or from 600-level or higher courses approved by their faculty mentor. Curriculum - Non-Thesis Track Core Courses (8 Credits) ENVSCI 603 - Coasts and Communities I 4 Credit(s) ENVSCI 604 - Coasts and Communities II 4 Credit(s) Skills Course (3 or 4 Credits) Complete one from below. Another course may be taken with approval of the master’s thesis/project committee. ENVSCI 601 - Introduction to Probability and Applied Statistics 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 611 - Applied Statistics 3 Credit(s) Ethics Course (1 Credit) ENVSCI 600 - Responsible Conduct in Research 1 Credit(s) School for the Environment Seminar (2 Credits) All masters students must attend seminar each week throughout their enrollment in the program. A maximum of two credits will be earned from the seminar course. ENVSCI 791 - Seminar in Environmental Sciences 1 Credit(s) Capstone Course (6 Credits) ENVSCI 698 - Projects in Environmental Sciences 1-6 Credit(s) Electives (9 or 10 Credits) Select courses and independent research hours to fulfill the 30 credit hour requirement. Students may select from any of the courses above not already taken or from 600-level or higher courses approved by their faculty mentor. Graduation Criteria Thesis Track Complete 30 credits from at least nine courses including two core courses, one skills course, one ethics course, one School for the Environment seminar, one thesis course, and nine to ten credits of electives. Capstone: Complete a master’s thesis. Students may apply to transfer to the Environmental Sciences (PhD) program from the thesis track upon completion of the core course requirements. Minimum grade: No courses with a grade below B may be applied toward the program. Students who earn a B- in two courses will be considered no longer in good standing and may be dismissed from the program. Students who receive a grade below C in any graduate course will be dismissed from the program. Grading basis: Courses must be taken graded unless the course is only offered on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 is required from all courses applied toward the program. Residency: Graduate course credits earned at another institution, as a non-degree student, or in another department may only be applied to the program with approval from the thesis/project advisor and graduate program director. Course level: No more than one course taken at UMass Boston at the 300/400-level may be applied toward the program with approval of the thesis/project advisor and graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Seven years. Non-Thesis Track Complete 30 credits from at least nine courses including two core courses, one skills course, one ethics course, one School for the Environment seminar, one capstone course, and nine to ten credits of electives. Capstone: Complete a project as part of ENVSCI 698. Minimum grade: No courses with a grade below B may be applied toward the program. Students who earn a B- in two courses will be considered no longer in good standing and may be dismissed from the program. Students who receive a grade below C in any graduate course will be dismissed from the program. Grading basis: Courses must be taken graded unless the course is only offered on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 is required from all courses applied toward the program. Residency: Graduate course credits earned at another institution, as a non-degree student, or in another department may only be applied to the program with approval from the thesis/project advisor and graduate program director. Course level: No more than one course taken at UMass Boston at the 300/400-level may be applied toward the program with approval of the thesis/project advisor and graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Seven years. FAQs 1. Should I contact faculty members directly? Yes, reach out and talk to faculty whose research interests you. To be accepted in the program you need a faculty advisor. 2. Is there a separate application I need to fill out to be considered for a teaching assistantship? No, your general application is all that is required. 3. I'm applying for a master's degree, can I still get a teaching assistantship? Possibly, preference is given to doctoral students. 4. Can I start my graduate degree in the spring semester? Yes, however, most students start in the fall semester. 5. Can I get an application fee waiver? In special situations this is possible, please contact the graduate program director directly and discuss your situation. Should you need further assistance please refer to the link below or contact Graduate Program Director Georgia Mavrommati at georgia.mavrommati@umb.edu. Contact Graduate Program Director Michael Tlusty michael.tlusty [at] umb.edu (617) 287-5285 School for the Environment Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our School for the Environment. Explore Now Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms