Community Engagement Services - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Demography on Aging Community Engagement Services Menu menu Menu Community Engagement Services Elder Index Demographic Resources Our Team Senior Centers & Age Friendly Communities Needs assessments and community services A primary goal of the Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging is to provide the following services  expertise to communities, non-governmental organizations and other agencies that provide services to older adults. Needs assessment Program evaluation Community engagement Demographic resources Located at the UMass Boston campus, the Center’s academic environment is conducive to the production of high quality basic and applied research, collaborations with organizations who have shared interests in improving services for older people, and communities with planning and/or program evaluation needs. To date, community program planning and evaluation projects have focused on identifying needs of communities, with respect to providing services to their older residents. Notice: Agreements between local governments and the Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging (CSDRA) are exempt from the provisions of Chapter 30b, the Uniform Procurement Act, since the University of Massachusetts is an instrumentality of the Commonwealth. Municipalities may negotiate a scope of services and a price with CSDRA directly, saving both time and money. Contact Us Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 phone: 617.287.7413 * We are currently operating remotely but are checking our phone messages regularly. Please leave us a message and we will return your call. csdra@umb.edu Communities, Assessments, and Action Plans The Center has worked with about 80 municipalities throughout the Commonwealth. Towns and cities that we have worked with are visually represented in the map below. Click on a pin for a link to the published report, or click the icon on the top left for a list of communities with report links. Faculty, Staff, and Students Learn more about the dedicated staff of the Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging. Read More Connect with CSDRA on Twitter Like UMass Boston Gerontology Contact Us Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging UMass Boston 617.287.7413 csdra@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms