Faq - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Ross Center for Disability Services Students Faq Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Meet The Staff Resources Rights Documentation Students Accommodations Faq Grievance Procedure Requesting Accommodations Services Faculty Who Was The Ross Center Founder Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office FAQ Q: Can I receive academic accommodations without documentation of my disability? A: You must provide appropriate documentation from a registered health care professional—Ross Center staff use this documentation to determine appropriate accommodations. The Ross Center can, however, provide "provisional" accommodations, not to exceed one semester, based upon student self-report and other documentation, but you must provide appropriate documentation by the agreed-upon deadline. Q: Does the Ross Center provide tutoring? A: No, the Ross Center does not provide tutoring. Staff will help you to access tutoring services provided by Academic Support Programs at UMass Boston as well as tutoring resources in the community. Q: I need help with time management, organization, and planning. Where can I get that assistance? A: Academic Support Programs offers frequent workshops on these topics each semester. In addition, Ross Center staff can help you identify assistance provided by agencies or individuals outside of UMass Boston. Q: Does the Ross Center help me select courses and choose a major? A: The Ross Center will help you meet with an appropriate advisor at UMass Boston who has the specialized knowledge and skills needed to advise you academically. Q: I have difficulty completing assignments on time. Can I get accommodations for extra time for completing assignments? A: In the case of a health-related disability that flares up episodically (for example, lupus, fibromyalgia, sickle cell anemia, seizure disorders, cancer, migraines, conditions requiring dialysis, or mental health disabilities), you may be eligible for an accommodation. Should you receive this accommodation, you should follow the guidelines outlined for you and your faculty, and stay in communication with your faculty. Q: What should I do if the instructor does not agree to provide accommodations that were listed in the faculty email? A: The email sent to faculty will specify the accommodations for which you qualify. You should notify the Ross Center immediately if a faculty member does not provide an approved accommodation, as the Ross Center is the office that approves and coordinates academic accommodations. It is recommended and usually most effective if you also discuss with your faculty the impact of your disability on your learning and performance.  You don’t need to disclose your disability, and the Ross Center is responsible for conversations and negotiations with faculty. Q: I would like to receive an incomplete for a course since I cannot complete the assignments due to my disability. A: The Ross Center cannot make recommendations regarding incomplete grades as an accommodation. That is a matter for each academic department. You should discuss this with your faculty member. However, the Ross Center staff would discuss with faculty the reasons that a student’s disability may have caused issues for which an incomplete may be a possible resolution. Q: I need to park as close to my classes as possible. Where can I park with a Handicapped Plate? A: You may park in designated Handicapped Parking spaces. To learn where those spaces are on the UMass Boston campus, please visit the website of the Parking and Transportation Department . To apply for a Handicapped Parking plate or placard, please visit this website: Registry of Motor Vehicles . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms