Spanish - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Testing Services Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Academic & Career Engagement & Success Testing Services Spanish Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Student Referral Program Testing Services College Level Examination Program Self-Guided Writing Placement Math Policies Proctoring Services Spanish Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Spanish Spanish Language Placement Test (WebCape) The Latin American and Iberian Studies Department recommends that students take the 20 minute online Spanish placement test, called WebCAPE, to help students place into the appropriate Spanish language level.  WebCape cannot be used to fulfill the Elementary Language Proficiency requirement.  See additional information on how to fulfill the Elementary Language Proficiency Requirement . Using Google Chrome or Firefox, click on the Webcape Spanish Placement website . First-time users will need to create a new account. Enter your First name, Last Name, UMB Student ID number, and UMB student e-mail address. Returning users can simply log into your existing TrueNorth account. The exam takes about 15 – 30 minutes depending on your skill level Immediately after you complete the exam you will receive your score and placement course level. You will need this information during the course registration process. You may only take this test once. Requests to retake the Spanish placement test should be sent to Margaret Fitzgerald . Students who believe they are misplaced in a course level must contact the Latin American and Iberian Studies Department at 617-287-7550 to discuss placement. After the completion of the test, students will immediately be given their placement level score. Below 240 Spanish 101 (Heritage or native speakers of Spanish must report to the Department of Latin American and Iberian Studies to take a written placement exam) 240-315 Spanish 102 (Heritage or native speakers of Spanish must report to the Department of Latin American and Iberian Studies to take a written placement exam) 316-426 Spanish 201 (Heritage or native speakers of Spanish must report to the Department of Latin American and Iberian Studies to take a written placement exam) 427-561 Spanish 202 (Heritage or native speakers of Spanish must report to the Department of Latin American and Iberian Studies to take a written placement exam) above 561 Spanish 230/301 + (Heritage or native speakers of Spanish must report to the Department of Latin American and Iberian Studies to take a written placement exam) Important note for heritage speakers:  Heritage speakers are those who speak and understand a language but have never formally studied the language.  Heritage speakers should not take WebCAPE; instead, they should visit the Latin American and Iberian Studies Department and take a short written test to determine their correct placement. The Latin American and Iberian Studies Department offers four levels of language study (Spanish: 101, 102, 201, 202) prior to enrolling in majors levels courses. Your WebCAPE score will place you either in one of these courses, or refer you to a 300-level course. Once you receive your score, you should register for a class at that level. Remember that university policy does not allow taking language courses out of sequence, nor enrolling in two different levels of language instruction simultaneously. If you are planning to study Spanish in the summer, notice that the College of Advancing and Professional Studies equivalents of 101 and 102 are numbered 105 and 106. You cannot get credit for both 101 and 105 or 102 and 106. For more information about the course offerings please visit Latin American and Iberian Studies Department (Hispanic Studies). McCormack Hall, 4th floor, Room 618.  Phone, 617-287-7550 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms