Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Upward Bound Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Upward Bound Staff Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Talent Search Program Upward Bound Alumni Application Eligibility Employment Staff Upward Bound Math-Science Urban Scholars Directions for Student Potential Pathways & Multilingual Programs English Language Program Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Meet the Staff Director Suamy Ventura Suamy has been working with Pre-Collegiate Programs at UMass Boston since she was an undergraduate student. Her professional experience expands over a decade across several programs, including the Health Career Opportunities Program, Urban Scholars, and Upward Bound. She has been dedicated to serving talented and gifted students of low socioeconomic backgrounds from several Boston Public Schools in the area. Her love for helping underprivileged students has given her the desire to continue working in the field of education. As a first-generation college-bound student, she understands what it takes to be on the right track for a successful college career. Suamy graduated from UMass Boston with a BA in psychology and a MEd in school counseling. Suamy is currently the director of TRiO Upward Bound and Urban Scholars. Associate Director Janay Graham Janay joined the Upward Bound Program in November 2020. She has previously held roles that promote higher education access through volunteer and work experiences in nonprofits, high schools, and higher education settings.  Janay graduated from N.C. State University with a bachelor's degree in Education and from the Harvard Graduate School of Education with a MEd in Prevention Science and Practice. She is driven by a motivation to see underprivileged youth from backgrounds like hers experience the same growth in confidence, leadership development, and social justice awareness that her college experience gave her. With that in mind, Janay is excited to support the mission, staff, and students of the Upward Bound Program and continue promoting equitable education access for all students. College Access Coordinator Lei Douglas Lei is a student success advocate and has been in the education field for over 10 years. Her experience includes student support via Student Affairs (Residential Life), college advising, and diversity, equity, inclusion & belonging (DEIB), as well as program management. Her passions include mentoring, advocacy, and providing quality care and support to students and the campus community by eliminating barriers and systems that hinder student success and persistence. She enjoys community-building with students and colleagues alike to foster genuine relationships that promote achievement and advancement both inside and outside of higher education. Student Counselor/Recruiter Carlene Tavares Carlene, a first-generation Cape Verdean immigrant, has lived in the United States for ten years. She speaks four languages fluently, including verbal and written Cape Verdean Kriolú and Portuguese. She earned her bachelor's degree in psychology from UMass Boston and is now looking to pursue her education further to become a community counselor. Since 2013, Carlene has been a part of the Urban Scholars program, initially joining as a high school student and later becoming a formal program alumna. During her time with the program, she has worked as a teaching assistant and tutor, using her growth experience to give back. After five years, Carlene joined Upward Bound as a recruiter and student counselor, driven by her love and determination to help youth and the community. To email a staff member, click on their name. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms