Podcast - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home William Joiner Institute Service & Engagement Podcast Menu menu Menu People Celebration & Awards Research & Impact Service & Engagement Thank You For Serving Podcast Resources Email List Support Us Podcast Podcast "Speaking With the William Joiner Institute: Where Conversation is the Answer" is a podcast based out of the William Joiner Institute for the Study of War and Social Consequence at the University of Massachusetts - Boston. We do a lot with this podcast, but generally episodes fall into three categories. Interviews focusing on subjects such as military service, veteran's affairs, military foreign policy, civilian/non-combatant experience and consequence, and the social and environmental consequences of conflict and war (among many other subjects). Many of these interviews fall into a "personal interest", "issue highlight", and/or "research highlight" category. Journalistic or "deep-dives" into singular (though always interconnected) issues: think NPR-style, long-form pieces. Highlighting various research projects being done by the team at WJI, as well as events being hosted and other noteworthy subjects. These will mostly be interview-style. Our goal is to further discourse about war and its social consequences in general, and to reach out to veterans and service members who could benefit from the programs and information we feature on the podcast. We hope you join us in the conversation! Episodes In our very first episode, we speak with WJI director Ana Alejandro and co-director Tom Miller about the past, present, and future of the Institute. We also talk about their individual backgrounds, and our host and podcast director James Cerone introduces himself and the podcast initiative. Featuring a radio address from Eleanor Roosevelt on the very day of Pearl Harbor, in honor of those who were there that day. William Joiner Institute 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125-3393 617.287.5863 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms