Mccormack Racial Equity Task Force Mret - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home The McCormack School Academics Special Projects Mccormack Racial Equity Task Force Mret Menu menu Menu Academics Special Projects Africa Scholars Forum Massachusetts Ballot Debates Mccormack Racial Equity Task Force Mret McCormack Speaks Wumb Radio Newsletters Policy Across Disciplines Woodprofessorship Take a Class Student Success McCormack Scholars Research Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Governance Public Policy & Public Affairs McCormack Racial Equity Task Force (MRET) The McCormack Racial Equity Taskforce (M-RET) is a McCormack Graduate School deans office initiative to promote racial equity and justice at the college. Message from Founding Co-Chairs David Cash & Rita Kiki Edozie Dear McCormack Community, Yesterday, April 20th, 2021, the State of Minnesota vs Derek Chauvin case prosecuting the death of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer employing excessive use of force, brutality, and depraved indifference for the life of a Minnesota citizen, came to an end with a guilty charge on all three counts. The verdict is being heralded as a rare but first step in America’s long civil rights struggle for equality in policing justice for all. Given the egregiousness of Chauvin’s crime – and its growing prevalence even in recent days – the three-count guilty verdict for George Floyd’s murder represents merely one small step towards substantive justice in policing for Black and other communities of color around the country. True justice in policing will be restorative, seeking to eradicate all forms of anti-Black police brutality and excessive use of force, and structural inequalities that have shaped racial inequities and discriminatory living conditions for BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and other People of Color). As a policy school, we recognize the political acts embarked upon by the administration and congress. We must deliberate and advance policies like the George Floyd Justice in Policing bill. The Department of Justice’s investigation into the use of force and racial policing of the Minnesota Police Department will also need to be followed closely. Of foremost importance, however, are the acts emerging from the community. Symbolized by the group of passers-by who bore direct witness and testimony to George Floyd’s death at the hands of Derek Chauvin, it is the likes of a then 17-year-old Darnella Frazier who painfully but courageously videotaped the killing, that our own actions must aspire. If not for Frazier’s courageous act, Chauvin may never have been held accountable for his crime and the trend of injustice in policing against African Americans, especially, would continue to fester. In our own small ways, we all have the abilities to be active witnesses to moral and ethical injustices as we proactively seek change and transformation for the betterment of our communities. We know there are many emotions, insights and thoughts swirling in our community, and we hope that the Teach-in will provide an opportunity to reflect and discuss as we process this moment. In solidarity, David and Kiki Co-Chairs, McCormack Racial Equity Taskforce (M-RET) STRUCTURE Comprised of co-chairs Professor and Chair of the Department of Public Policy and Public Affairs, Michael Johnson and Graduate Program Director, Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy; Graduate Certificate Director, Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy, Laurie Nsiah-Jefferson as well as over twenty faculty members, students, and staff drawn from the college’s departments and institutes/centers; the taskforce seeks to understand racial and ethnic disparities and the reasons they exist at the college. To overcome barriers in diversity, equity and inclusion at the college, the taskforce will generate data and information about race and ethnicity with the purpose of establishing a shared, progressive vision of a diverse, fair, and inclusive academic environment and workplace. The taskforce will position McCormack Graduate School to better identify leadership, act, and increase accountability around issues of racial equity at the college. To this end, the taskforce has embarked on four major tasks including i) increasing hiring among faculty, students, and staff of color; ii) improving McCormack’s racial and cross-cutting cultural workplace environment; iii) promoting on campus and off campus racial equity awareness through outreach and programming; iv) diversifying McCormack’s graduate education and undergraduate curricula. MEMBERSHIP Current Co-Chairs Laurie Nsiah-Jefferson, Graduate Program Director, Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy; Graduate Certificate Program Director, Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy, McCormack Graduate School Michael Johnson , Professor and Chair, Department of Public Policy and Public Affairs, McCormack Graduate School Rita Kiki Edozie , Interim Dean & Professor, McCormack Graduate School (Founding Chair and Ex-officio) Faculty Appointments Sub-Committee Underrepresented Minorities (including Black/African American, LatinX, and Native American/Pacific Islander) are underrepresented in higher education, including at UMass Boston. This subcommittee will identify ways in which MGS can increase its full-time tenured faculty who are Black, Indigenous People of Color (BIPOC) through target opportunity hires, with direct recruitment of exceptional candidates, including those who might not be on the job market. Laurie Nsiah-Jefferson , MRET Co-Chair and Director, Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Carolyne Arnold , Associate Professor, Department of Gerontology Michael Johnson , MRET Co-Chair, Professor and Chair, Department of Public Policy and Public Affairs Rita Kiki Edozie , Interim Dean & Professor, McCormack Graduate School (Founding Chair and Ex-officio) Student Enrollments Sub-Committee Finding ways to advertise the university and inform prospective students about UMB's strong commitment to diversity. This will help us attract a BIPOC student body, allowing students of all racial backgrounds to engage with one another and provide a richer education. The subcommittee will also develop ideas related to establishing highly visible, accessible support systems that address BIPOC students' needs and engage them in the decision-making process. Michael Johnson , MRET Co-Chair, Professor and Chair, Department of Public Policy and Public Affairs Krystal-Gayle O'Neill , PhD Student, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance Nike Ojelabi , PhD Student, Public Policy and Public Affairs Department Climate Issues Sub-Committee (micro-aggressions, implicit biases, and fostering inclusion) This subcommittee will develop and facilitate programming to increase the College’s leadership, faculty, students, and staff cultural competency. This may include conducting cultural climate assessments, developing peer networks and professional development trainings for student leaders, and holding people accountable. Eben Weitzman , Associate Professor and Graduate Program Director, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance Jarling Ho , Program Manager, Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration Esther Rogers , MPA Alumni, Department of Public Policy and Public Affairs Meg Hassey , PhD Student, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance Jamie Tull , College Business Coordinator, Dean’s Office, McCormack Graduate School Darren Kew , Associate Professor, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance; Executive Director of Center for Peace, Democracy, and Development Denise Muro , PhD Student, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance Curricula Diversity Sub-Committee Having an inclusive academic community also includes having a diverse curriculum that reflects the historical and contemporary experiences of people of color. This subcommittee will help us identify texts and topics that are culturally inclusive and also help to develop instructional strategies that incorporate the historical and lived experience of People of Color. Karen Ross , Assistant Professor, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security and Global Governance Sudeshna Chatterjee , PhD Student, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance Leena Maqsood , PhD Student, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance Muna Killingback , Assistant Program Director, Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy Hannah Brown , PhD Student, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance Ellen B. Milimu , PhD Student, Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance Laurie Nsiah-Jefferson , MRET Co-Chair and Director, Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Mission, Engagement, and Outreach Sub-Committee This subcommittee will help ensure our mission, engagement, and outreach approaches are inclusive and target students, faculty, and staff of all racial and ethnic backgrounds to reinforce UMB's commitment to healing social injustices and honors our humanity. Susan Crandall , Director, Center for Social Policy and Clinical Professor, Public Policy and Public Affairs Christopher Graham , Manager, Student Success and Undergraduate Advising, Dean’s Office, McCormack Graduate School Jamie Tull , College Business Coordinator, Dean’s Office, McCormack Graduate School MRET PAST EVENTS The McCormack Racial Equity Task Force (MRET): Diversifying the Curriculum Speaker Series NO3. (April 08, 2022) The McCormack Racial Equity Taskforce (MRET) presents the Diversifying the Curriculum Speaker Series in a  conversation with the second keynote speaker Randall Kennedy, Michael R. Klein Professor at Harvard Law School where he teaches courses on contracts, criminal law, and the regulation of race relations.  A member of the American Law Institute, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the American Philosophical Association, Professor Kennedy is also a Trustee emeritus of Princeton University. Professor Kennedy's talk was on "The Controversey Surrounding Critical Race Theory." The McCormack Racial Equity Task Force (MRET): Diversifying the Curriculum Speaker Series NO2. (November 19, 2021) The McCormack Racial Equity Taskforce (MRET) presents the Diversifying the Curriculum Speaker Series in a  conversation with the second keynote speaker Dr. Robert Taylor, Harold R. Johnson Endowed Professor of Social Work and the Sheila Feld  Collegiate Professor of Social Work at the University of Michigan. He is affiliated with the Michigan Center for Urban African American  Aging Research and the Director of the Program for Research on Black Americans at the Institute for Social Research. Dr. Taylor presented  on the topic: "Social Support, Social Isolation and Black Americans." Event Resources: Rewatch the Event on Youtube A Juneteenth Holiday Talk - Juneteenth: A Historic and Modern Context (June 17, 2021) The Osher Life Long Learning Institute (OLLI) at UMass Boston & McCormack Racial Equity Task Force (MRET) co-host a special Juneteenth Holiday Talk. Juneteenth honors the end to slavery in the United States and is considered the longest-running African American holiday. Reverend Jeffrey L. Brown presented a historical context of Juneteenth and the role it plays in today's communities. Event Resources: Rewatch the Event on Echo 360 Difficult Conversations in The Classroom - Addressing Racism, Communication and Social Justice (May 21, 2021) The McCormack Racial Equity Taskforce presents the Diversifying the Curriculum Speaker Series in a conversation with keynote speaker Dr. Tina M. Harris, Professor & Manship-Maynard Endowed Chair of Race, Media, & Cultural Literacy Affiliate, The African and African American Studies Program, Louisiana State University. Event Resources: Rewatch the Event on YouTube Racial Justice and Defunding the Police in Massachusetts: Planning for POST (Peace, Officers, Standards for Training) Bill (February 2, 2021) Members of MRET and MA State Representative Nika Elugardo discussed the implications of "defunding" language for the so-called left and right, deconstructing slogans to peek into the realities of making legislation. Event Resources: Rewatch the Event on YouTube or see Written Event Recap Micro-Aggression in the Workplace Workshop (December 3, 2020) An interactive session where MRet explored Micro-aggression in the workplace. The discussion was led and moderated by professor and associate dean Rita Kiki Edozie, doctoral student, Chidimma Ozor, MSW, MA, and associate professor Darren Kew. Event Resources: Microaggressions and Their Impact Powerpoint UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms