Meal Plans - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Housing & Dining Meal Plans Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining On Campus Meal Plans Off Campus Policies & Forms Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Meal Plans UMass Boston Dining is about more than great food. It is a community experience centered on culinary expertise, fresh ingredients, healthy options, and a shared sense of environmental and social responsibility. Join us for a welcoming dining experience that includes outstanding food served in an inviting atmosphere that is both comfortable and convenient. We are pleased to offer UMass Boston students a variety of Meal Plan options for the 2024-2025 academic year. The plans include a mandatory option for all residential students in addition to commuter meal plans for those living off campus. Residential Meal Plan Students living on campus in a Residence Hall are required to participate in a Resident Meal Plan. The cost for the 2024-2025 academic year is $6,360 ($3,180/semester) based on 218 board days. This price is applicable to both the Resident Meal Plan 14 and the Resident Unlimited Meal Plan. There is no difference in price between plans. Students may choose from the Resident Meal Plan 14* or the Resident Unlimited Plan that includes a combination of: Meal "Swipes" Used in the all-you-care-to-eat Dining Commons in the Residence Hall. Meal swipes do not carry over from week to week and they reset every Saturday. Guest Meals Each Resident Meal Plan provides for 5 Guest Meals per semester for use in the Resident Dining Commons. Dining Points (one dining point = one dollar) Can be used at any on-campus retail dining facility and are deducted based on the dollar amount spent. Retail dining locations include Food Court, Dunkin Donuts, Beacon Cafe, ISC Cafe, and UMarket (convenience store in the Residence Hall). Resident Meal Plan 14* 14 Meal "swipes" per week at the all-you-care-to-eat Resident Dining Commons 700 Dining Points per semester for use at any retail location on campus 5 Guest Meals per semester in the Resident Dining Commons Resident Unlimited Plan Unlimited Meal "swipes" per week at the all-you-care-to-eat Resident Dining Commons 175 Dining Points per semester for use at any retail location on campus 5 Guest Meals per semester in the Resident Dining Commons * Resident Students will automatically be signed up for Resident Meal Plan 14 and a charge of $6,360 will be automatically added to their student bill . This $6,360 charge applies to both the Resident Meal Plan 14 and the Resident Unlimited Meal Plan. There is no difference in price between plans. Students will have an opportunity to switch to the Resident Unlimited Plan if they prefer within the first two weeks of the semester by emailing mealplan@umb.edu . Please Note : Dining Points and Guest Meals carry over from the fall to spring semester provided that you continue on the Resident Meal Plan for the spring semester. Any unused dining points or meal swipes expire at the end of the 2024-2025 academic year in May 2025. Unused dining points and meal swipes cannot be refunded or transferred to a Beacon Bucks account. Dining points and meal swipes are not available during winter and summer breaks. Refund Policy: Voluntary withdrawal from the University in accordance with the University’s policies, prior to checking into the residence halls, will result in a full refund of the meal plan. Complete withdrawal from the University in accordance with the University's policies will follow the tuition and fee cancellation policy . Commuter Meal Plan Options Students who live off-campus and UMass Boston faculty and staff are welcome to participate in either of the two resident dining meal plans or choose from nine commuter meal plans with various combinations of Meal "swipes" which may be used in the Resident Dining Commons and Dining Points for use across campus in any retail dining location (Food Court, Dunkin Donuts, Beacon Cafe, ISC Cafe, and UMarket). Block Plan: Neighborhood A ($340) | 25 Meal "swipes" in the Resident Dining Commons only per academic year Neighborhood B ($650) | 50 Meal "swipes" in the Resident Dining Commons only per academic year Neighborhood C ($1,200) | 100 Meal "swipes" in the Resident Dining Commons only per academic year Dining Points Plan: Points Plan A "Harbor Plan" ($200) | 200 Dining Points and (3) Bonus "swipes" in the Resident Dining Commons Points Plan B " Beacons Plan" ($400) | 400 Dining Points and (7) Bonus "swipes" in the Resident Dining Commons Points Plan C "Commonwealth Plan" ($750) | 750 Dining Points and (10) Bonus "swipes" in the Resident Dining Commons Combo Plan: Combo A ($420) | 25 Meal "swipes" per year at the Resident Dining Commons and 100 Dining Points for use at any retail location on campus Combo B ($725) | 50 Meal "swipes" per year at the Resident Dining Commons and 100 Dining Points for use at any retail location on campus Combo C ($1,470) | 100 Meal "swipes" per year at the Resident Dining Commons and 300 Dining Points for use at any retail location on campus Please Note: Unused Dining Points or meal "swipes" purchased as part of a Commuter Meal Plan will roll over from the fall to spring semester and expire at the end of the 2024-2025 academic year in May 2025. Dining points cannot be transferred to a Beacon Bucks account. Dining points are not available during summer and winter breaks. Sign-up for commuter meal plans is available now! How to Enroll in a Commuter Plan: Go to https://beaconcard.umb.edu/ and login using your UMass Boston login information; Choose your Meal Plan option and carefully review the applicable contract; Choose your payment option. Students have the option of adding a meal plan to the student bill until add/drop day. After this time, meal plan purchases can be made using a credit card. Click the CONFIRM button at the bottom to agree to the terms and conditions of the contract; You are done! Your meal plan will be added to your BeaconCard for use beginning the first day of the semester. See Also UMass Boston Dining Services Where to Eat Healthy Eating and Food Allergies Meal plan sign-up and administrative questions can be directed to: mealplan@umb.edu. General dining questions can be directed to: UMass Boston Dining Services Campus Center, Lower Level 617.287.5217 Andy.Allen@sodexo.com UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms