Albert.Mogavero - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Albert.Mogavero Biography Albert Mogavero began his educational journey in 1973 after graduating from the University of Massachusetts in Boston in 1978. During his undergraduate program, he also continued his academic and foreign language studies by attending Middlebury College for two summers in 1976 and 1977. Additional Information He continued to further his knowledge and expertise by pursuing undergraduate and graduate credits in Spanish by enrolling in graduate credit courses at the Colegio de España in Salamanca, Spain during the summers of 1987, 1988 and 1989 through the graduate school of the University of Rhode Island. He later enrolled in additional undergraduate courses at the University of Massachusetts and graduate courses in Spanish at the Universidad de Menéndez Pelayo in Santander Spain in 1991 and ultimately completed his Master’s degree in Spanish Literature at Simmons University in 1992. He later completed a Master of Arts in Education from Cambridge College in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1995. Since that time, he has continued to take professional development workshops and graduate classes in education to increase his effectiveness as an instructor and school leader. As he remembers from the words of a former Spanish Professor, “the reward of the teacher is the students’ success.” Inspired by these words, Mr. Mogavero strives to be an effective and nurturing instructor. From 1986 to 2021, Mr. Mogavero has held various teaching and leadership roles. He has served as an Italian. Spanish and Spanish Bilingual teacher from 1986-2001. In 2001 to 2021 he assumed the simultaneous roles of ESL Director, Bilingual Director, Parent Information Director, and World Language Director until he retired in 2021. From the beginning to the end of his public-school teaching career, Mr. Mogavero has continued to take classes to increase his skill set in teaching as well as in supporting classroom teachers. He has also presented workshops both at the school level and at the state and national levels on ESL and world languages. In addition to teaching at the public-school level, Mr. Mogavero has been an adjunct Italian and Spanish instructor at Salem State College from 1993 to 2002 and is currently in his 31 st year as an Adjunct Spanish Instructor at the University of Massachusetts in Boston. Albert Mogavero began his educational journey in 1973 after graduating from the University of Massachusetts in Boston in 1978. During his undergraduate program, he also continued his academic and foreign language studies by attending Middlebury College for two summers in 1976 and 1977. He continued to further his knowledge and expertise by pursuing undergraduate and graduate credits in Spanish by enrolling in graduate credit courses at the Colegio de España in Salamanca, Spain during the summers of 1987, 1988 and 1989 through the graduate school of the University of Rhode Island. He later enrolled in additional undergraduate courses at the University of Massachusetts and graduate courses in Spanish at the Universidad de Menéndez Pelayo in Santander Spain in 1991 and ultimately completed his Master’s degree in Spanish Literature at Simmons University in 1992. He later completed a Master of Arts in Education from Cambridge College in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1995. Since that time, he has continued to take professional development workshops and graduate classes in education to increase his effectiveness as an instructor and school leader. As he remembers from the words of a former Spanish Professor, “the reward of the teacher is the students’ success.” Inspired by these words, Mr. Mogavero strives to be an effective and nurturing instructor. From 1986 to 2021, Mr. Mogavero has held various teaching and leadership roles. He has served as an Italian. Spanish and Spanish Bilingual teacher from 1986-2001. In 2001 to 2021 he assumed the simultaneous roles of ESL Director, Bilingual Director, Parent Information Director, and World Language Director until he retired in 2021. From the beginning to the end of his public-school teaching career, Mr. Mogavero has continued to take classes to increase his skill set in teaching as well as in supporting classroom teachers. He has also presented workshops both at the school level and at the state and national levels on ESL and world languages. In addition to teaching at the public-school level, Mr. Mogavero has been an adjunct Italian and Spanish instructor at Salem State College from 1993 to 2002 and is currently in his 31 st year as an Adjunct Spanish Instructor at the University of Massachusetts in Boston. Albert Mogavero CV [PDF] UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms