Immigrant Student Programs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Immigrant Student Programs Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Cultural Collaborative Immigrant Student Programs Multicultural Coalition Support Resources Undocumentedsupport Campus Ministry Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Immigrant Student Programs (ISP) Announcements UndocuAlly Training Attendees The Immigrant Student Programs (ISP) . The ISP consists of a mentorship program that supports Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) holders, and undocumented students. This program was created to support these students in accessing resources such as scholarships, mental health resources, and a mentorship program. The Immigrant Student Programs offers support for students who are immigrants or who are undocumented. The ISP Mentorship Program runs the duration of the academic year. Mentors chosen to support the ISP program must attend the Summer Leadership Institute (SLI). This intensive four-day training is attended by both Cultural Center Coordinators and ISP Mentors. SLI has a series of workshops that ISP mentors attend to better equip themselves in helping their mentees. These workshops include the history of the immigration movement in Boston, the intersections of one's identity, and the mission and goals of Student Multicultural Affairs. Mentors use the information from these workshops and help their mentees build a network of resources and a sense of community on campus. The Student Immigrant Alliance Club (SIA) is dedicated to creating a welcoming and safe community that empowers undocumented students and raises awareness on campus. The organization advocates for and partner with the university to pass undocumented-friendly policies. SIA serves undocumented/DACA/TPS immigrant students of all ages, ethnicities, and backgrounds who attend UMass Boston. SIA accomplishes its shared purpose by collaborating with other organizations both on and off-campus, hosting community events, and providing resources through events and social media. Student Multicultural Affairs Campus Center, 2nd Floor, Suite 2300 MC.Affairs@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms