Commencement - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Commencement Home Commencement Menu menu Menu FAQs Speakers & Honorary Degrees Senior Events Photos, Rings & More Faculty Participation Accessibility Information 2025 Commencement Ceremonies Commencement exercises for the Class of 2025 will be held on May 28 & 29, 2025. The class of 2025 is comprised of students graduating in December '24, May '25 and August '25. All commencement ceremonies will take place on the UMass Boston campus. Graduate Commencement will be held on Wednesday, May 28, 2025 and Undergraduate Commencement will be held on Thursday, May 29, 2025. Additional information will be posted here in late 2024 and early 2025 as details for the ceremonies are finalized. 2024 Commencement Ceremonies Congratulations class of 2024! We are so proud of all of you and are pleased to welcome you to the Alumni Association . On Wednesday, May 22, 2024, UMass Boston hosted the doctoral hooding and graduate commencement for the class of 2024. On Thursday, May 23, 2024, UMass Boston hosted the undergraduate commencement for the class of 2024. Watch the ceremonies: UMass Boston Doctoral Hooding Ceremony UMass Boston Graduate Commencement Ceremony UMass Boston Undergraduate Commencement Ceremony View the programs: Please note: Commencement Programs posted before the May 31st and August 31st degree conferral dates are for ceremonial purposes only. Final listing of graduates is subject to change based on the results of pending degree audits. Updated versions will be posted after the May and August conferral dates. 2024 Graduate Commencement Program 2024 Undergraduate Commencement Program Order photos: Order photos from GradImages: https://www.gradimages.com/universityofmassachusettsboston Make your Senior Class Gift: It's not too late to make your senior class gift in support of one another and future UMass Boston students! Make your gift here . Read about Previous Speakers and Degree Recipients President Barack Obama, Tim Russert, Victoria Reggie Kennedy, Emily Rooney, and David McCullough are just a few of the speakers who have addressed UMass Boston graduates. Read about previous speakers. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms