Faqs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Coronavirus Faqs Menu menu Menu COVID-19 University Policy Daily Self Check List Faqs Updates FAQs Please refer to our FAQs below for information on our current policies related to the COVID-19 vaccination, campus policies, and more. 1. Given the latest COVID policies and protocols, can you summarize what the university expects of me? All members of the campus community are welcome to wear a mask indoors while on campus. We expect all students and employees to closely monitor their own health on a daily basis.  If you believe you may have COVID, stay home and get tested. If you test positive, we expect you to follow CDC guidelines 2. If I test positive for COVID-19, what do I need to do? Individuals testing positive must follow the latest CDC guidance. Anyone needing clarification or additional guidance should contact UHS (617.287.5660) or their care provider. 3. I have been informed that I am a close contact of another member of the campus community who tested positive for COVID-19.  What do I need to do? Individuals no longer are advised to quarantine after a potential exposure, regardless of vaccination status. Consult a UHS clinician by calling 617.287.5660 if you have questions or need advice. 4. As a faculty member, should I expect to be informed if a student in my class tests positive for COVID-19? Will all of my students be notified? You will not always be notified when a student in your class tests positive Students may inform you (or members of the class, or the entire class) that they have tested positive.  They may also notify you or members of the class about a potential exposure. Students and instructors should plan to continue to have in person classes. If an instructor needs to quarantine, they should work with their Department, Dean, and the Provost’s office to determine a plan or shift to remote modality for the period of the quarantine. 5. My professor told me there was a COVID positive individual in one of my courses. What happens next? Should class be cancelled? Unless you develop symptoms, students and instructors should plan to continue going to class. If an instructor is unsure of how to proceed, they should work with their Department, Dean, and the Provost’s office to determine a plan. 6. Are students required to be vaccinated? On May 5, 2023, the university announced that effective July 1, it is suspending its vaccine requirement and transitioning to strongly recommending the vaccine (and boosters, when eligible) for all students, staff, faculty, and visitors. 7. Are students required to receive the booster shot? The university strongly recommends that students receive booster shots, when eligible. However, as of summer 2022 the booster is not required to participate in on campus activities. 8. Are faculty and staff required to be vaccinated? On May 5, 2023, the university announced that effective July 1, it is suspending its vaccine requirement and transitioning to strongly recommending the vaccine (and boosters, when eligible) for all students, staff, faculty, and visitors. 9. Are faculty and staff required to get a booster shot? The university strongly recommends that faculty and staff receive booster shots, when eligible. However, as of summer 2022 the booster is no longer required for employees to work on campus. 10. Can I receive a COVID vaccination at University Health Services? Yes. You can schedule an appointment at university Health Services to receive a free COVID-19 vaccine. UHS can help you determine if you are eligible for a booster. To schedule an appointment, please call 617.287.5661. 11. What is the current face covering policy on campus? UMass Boston currently has a mask optional policy in all spaces on campus, except for in University Health Services. Within UHS, patients who have respiratory symptoms or fever must wear a face mask. Masks are welcomed and encouraged on campus. Please continue to be vigilant in closely monitoring your own health and symptoms. If you feel symptoms, please stay home and get tested. We will continue to make antigen tests and masks available on campus. 12. If I am wearing one, what kinds of masks or face coverings are best? According to the CDC: “Masks and respirators (i.e., specialized filtering masks such as “N95s”) can provide different levels of protection depending on the type of mask and how they are used. Loosely woven cloth products provide the least protection, layered finely woven products offer more protection, well-fitting disposable surgical masks and KN95s offer even more protection, and well-fitting NIOSH-approved respirators (including N95s) offer the highest level of protection.” If available to you, we strongly recommend using multi-layer masks made of non-woven material to protect yourself and others from virus particles. Surgical masks, KN95, KF94, and N95 all offer better protection than cloth masks. Double masking can also be an effective strategy. Do not use loose fitting knit materials or items such as bandanas or neck gaiters. 13. What do I do if I feel ill? If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, you should stay home and take a COVID test. Follow your health care provider’s guidance and university quarantine and isolation guidance as to when to return to school or work; and isolate in place until you receive your test result. If you are an employee and you do not have sick or vacation time available to use, you should still stay at home until your health provider confirms that you may return to work and you have complied with university guidance regarding quarantine and isolation. Notify your manager and contact Pamela Holloman to discuss any options that may be available. 14. What if I'm told I was exposed, or if someone in my household has tested positive? You should closely monitor for any symptoms, wear a mask and you should plan to get tested. You can conduct an at home test or get tested at UHS. You may also choose to consult a UHS clinician by calling 617.287.5660. If you experience symptoms, contact a UHS clinician. You should rest and isolate until you receive a test result. 15. What if my roommate is sick? If your roommate tests positive, you will likely be considered to have been exposed. 16. I am an allergy sufferer and/or have a chronic cough –when I review the daily checklist it indicates I should not come to campus because I have a cough. I am fairly confident that this is not a COVID-19 indication, but what should I do? You can come to campus. For any chronic condition, such as an allergy, individuals should monitor for any changes or exacerbation of the symptoms. If there are changes or exacerbation, you should stay home and call UHS or your primary care provider. Because COVID-19 (and the flu) can mimic allergy symptoms it is recommended that the you receive regular COVID-19 tests at UHS. 17. How is campus leadership monitoring the health situation and planning for the future? Since the start of the pandemic, we have talked numerous times about prioritizing the health and safety of our community – we want you to know that today, tomorrow, and beyond, these will continue to be our guiding principles in our decision-making, communications, policies, and practices. We are actively monitoring the development and spread of new variants. We communicate regularly with local and state health officials about the everchanging data. As more information becomes available and/or as recommendations from state and federal health organizations shift, we will communicate any changes to our policies. We appreciate the continued flexibility of our entire community as we battle together against this horrific disease. 18. Does the university still have free home antigen testing kits available?  If so, where can they be picked up? Yes, the university continues to provide free home antigen testing kids.  These and masks are available in UHS (Quinn, 2nd floor). 19. What is our current visitor policy? There are currently no event or visitor restrictions in place related to Covid-19. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms