Microsoft 365 Apps - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Software & Systems Email Microsoft 365 Apps Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems WISER Email Faculty Staff Faq Microsoft 365 Apps Office 365 Student Acceptable Use Policy Students Password CloudPC Docusign Electronic Signature Software for Faculty & Staff Student IT Discounts Wifi Aira Accessibility Technology Telecom Mathematica Admin Systems Services for Alumni Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Microsoft 365 Apps Teams Chat, meet, call, share files, and more with Microsoft Teams. Teams allows for your group to interact by discussion pages, share documents with one another, hold video conferencing meetings, and provides a OneDrive group file repository. Add on the apps you need like Office Online, forms, and many other applications. Visit our Get Started with Teams page. OneDrive OneDrive is an online file storage service that enables sharing and collaboration. It's free for students, faculty, and staff on campus. Think of it as a hard drive in the cloud, with features to “sync” your files to your computer, share files with others, and more. Visit our Get Started with OneDrive page . Bookings Microsoft Bookings lets your clients schedule time with you, without the back and forth of trying to coordinate a meeting time over email. You can set your available hours and link it to your Outlook calendar, and your clients will be able to select from only your available hours. Bookings allows for multiple meeting types and lengths, let’s you offer your colleague’s schedules too from the same page, works with zoom and other remote conferencing tools, and has automatic reminders for everyone. Visit our Get Started with Bookings page. Office Online Most of us are used to using Word, Excel, and PowerPoint as software installed on our desktop computers. Office Online lets you use these three tools through the browser, rather than having to install software on your computer. Collaborate in real-time with others to work on documents together! Visit Microsoft's 365 Help & Learning page. To Do Microsoft To Do is an online to do list that can be accessed from any device. To Do can create lists that include due dates, reminders, time slots, and can be shared with other users to collaborate and assign tasks. Visit Microsoft's To Do Help & Learning page. Planner Microsoft Planner is a project management application with Office 365. Users and their teams can use Planner to create and assign tasks, discuss them and track the progress of what has been completed. While Microsoft To Do is better for lists of individual tasks, Microsoft Planner is better for larger projects with multiple related subtasks leading to a common goal. Visit our Get Started with Planner page. Project Microsoft Project is an advanced project management application. Plan the tasks that make up a project, and then view the tasks as a Gantt Chart, Grid view, Timeline, or Board views. Collaborate with others on your project by sharing edit access and assigning tasks and deadlines. Visit Microsoft's Project Help & Learning page. Forms Microsoft Forms is a web form builder to easily create polls, surveys, quizzes, and more. Unlike Google Forms, Microsoft Forms stores data in a FERPA compliant manner, and unlike Survey Monkey, Microsoft Forms is free for all on campus. Visit our Get Started with Forms page. OneNote Microsoft OneNote is an online note taking application. Notebooks can be created that can hold personalized sections, each with an unlimited number of pages, and can contain text, photos, sketches, and attachments. OneNote content can be viewed on any device. Visit Microsoft's OneNote Help & Learning page. Sway Microsoft Sway is a presentation creation app. Sway allows users to create interactive reports, stories, and presentations that can be shared between users for viewing or editing. Different than PowerPoint, Sway has a built in design engine that can help create professional formatting or style creation easily. Visit Microsoft's Sway Help & Learning page. Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms