News - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Classified Staff Union News Menu menu Menu Benefits Contact Documents Forms News Rights News & Events MTA Union Skills Winter Conference MTA Annual Meeting of Delegates NEA Representative Assembly CSU Chapter Meeting Schedule MTA Union Skills Winter Conference Saturday February 4th, 2023, 8am to 4pm Omni Parker House, Boston MA Please join us for MTA’s Union Skills Winter Conference, which will include a wide variety of 75-minute workshops related to the core activities of local unions. Offerings center on the MTA’s NEW Bargaining Certificate Program, grievance handling, organizing against MCAS, communications, leadership development, contract campaigns and more!  There will also be an opportunity to learn about the MTA’s legislative goals and how members can get involved to win Higher Ed for All, the end to MCAS, and the right to strike. Locals are strongly encouraged to bring a group of members to participate in different training segments based on their roles and interests. This is also a great opportunity for new activists to participate in an energizing statewide event while developing essential union skills.  There will also be an opportunity for local union elected leaders to attend “office hours” communications staff to support local union communications needs such as websites, social media, and messaging. We are also pleased to be offering our popular Next Generation Leadership program, which will start on Friday night at 6 pm and will run all day on Saturday.  Participants in this program will be developing their leadership and organizing skills and is best for members who are new to leadership or want to take on more in their local association.  Friday night dinner and a hotel room is free to participants in this event. Also, on Friday night, there will be an invite-only summit for existing and developing bargaining councils.  The summit will be focused on best practices for building and running effective regional or employer based coordination at the bargaining table. Register here for MTA Union Skills Winter Conference . Register soon. We have limited space! MTA Annual Meeting of Delegates The 2023 Annual Meeting of Delegates will be held April 28-29, in Springfield, MA. In this meeting, delegates from across the state gather to vote on policies and set the direction for the MTA in the year ahead. Your voice matters. CSU will be calling for local delegates in the coming months. There are also 50 seats available for Regional Ethnic Minority Delegates to the MTA Annual Meeting. Each electoral region among the active membership (A, B, C, D, E, F, G, and H) is entitled to these specifically-designated ethnic minority delegate seats equal to the number of district directors from that region.  And the retired membership has an allocation of two such delegate seats. Ethnic Minority members are encouraged to self-nominate to run for delegate status in this category.  The nomination deadline is Friday, January 13, 2023.  Election details and access to the self-nomination form can be found online at www.massteacher.org/nomform . MTA will provide travel funding for these Annual Meeting delegates (up to $450 in eligible travel expense reimbursement). The Policy/Procedure for the Nomination and Election of Regional and Retired Ethnic Minority Delegates to the MTA Annual Meeting of Delegates is available upon request. All active members also have the option of running as a local delegate to Annual Meeting; to pursue that option, contact your local president to inquire about the process and timeline for your local. All retired members also have the option of running as a retired delegate to Annual Meeting by filling out the nomination form available at www.massteacher.org/nomform . NEA Representative Assembly July 2-6, 2023 Orlando, Florida The 2023 NEA Representative Assembly will be held July 2-6, 2023 in Orlando, FL.  This is the meeting of representatives from all NEA state associations and is the world’s largest democratic deliberative assembly. At the NEA-RA, policies are voted on and set regarding a range of issues critical to educators, from testing to economic and racial justice, to electoral politics, and more. It is an opportunity for democratic engagement and making national connections to build our movement and strength. We are committed to even greater involvement by MTA ethnic minority members in all organizational activities, and particularly at the Representative Assembly. This commitment is expressed in NEA Bylaw 3-1(g), and its intent is strongly supported by MTA through its Minority Involvement Plan. According to NEA Bylaw 3-1 (g), it is the policy of the NEA to achieve ethnic minority delegate representation at least equal to the proportion of identified ethnic minority populations within the state. NEA defines ethnic minority by statistical compilation as published by the U.S. Bureau of the Census – American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, Black, Hispanic, and Other Racial or Ethnic Minority (includes Cape Verdean). MTA will conduct elections for the statewide, regional, and retired delegates to the NEA-RA. The nomination deadline is Friday, January 13, 2023.  Election details and access to the self-nomination form can be found online at www.massteacher.org/nomform. All active members also have the option of running as a local delegate to the NEA-RA; to pursue that option, contact your president to inquire about the process and timeline for your local. All retired members also have the option of running as a retired delegate to the RA by filling out the nomination form available at www.massteacher.org/nomform . MTA provides travel funding to NEA-RA delegates, subject to an accountability requirement for qualified reimbursable travel expenses. The Policies/Procedures on the Nomination and Election of Statewide, Regional, and Retired Delegates to the NEA-RA is available upon request. CSU Chapter Meetings - Hybrid: Zoom & ISC 3300 Thursday, January 19, 12-1pm Wednesday, February 15, 12-1pm Tuesday, March 21, 12-1pm Thursday, April 13, 12-1pm Wednesday, May 17, 12-1pm Classified Staff Union 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125-3393 Contact Us Classified Staff Union Quinn 2nd Floor, Room 081 csu@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms