Learning Community - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Student Resources CLA First! Learning Community Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Faculty & Staff Student Resources CLA Advising CLA First! Learning Community Current Members Research & Centers Dean's Office Learning Community What is a learning community? A small group of students who have something in common, and who take courses together is the best definition of learning community.  All members of CLA First! are first-year students who are planning to major in a program offered by the College of Liberal Arts. At a school as large as the University of Massachusetts Boston, having a smaller group to connect and learn with can make a big place feel a bit smaller! What are the advantages to belonging to a learning community like CLA First!? Besides the chance to work with a smaller group of peers who have similar interests, the learning community of CLA First! will give you a chance to do something interesting and unique during your first year of college.  The program has professional academic advisors to work with students on academic advising and course selection, and also to provide a series of social and educational programs outside the classroom. Students also have access to experienced student Peer Mentors who act as additional resources for the program. Students in CLA First! will be able to participate in special activities designed to enhance their college experience, like speakers, campus programs and opportunities to connect with faculty, staff and other students at UMass Boston. How will I meet other students besides those in my learning community cohort? Your CLA First! classes will only make up a part of your schedule, so there is plenty of opportunity to explore all courses offered, and to meet a variety of people who are members of the University community. Get a running start on academic success. Join CLA First! For more information, e-mail Rachel Puopolo, Director of CLA First! or call 617-287-5721 Read More Connect Request Information Apply to Undergraduate Admissions Apply to Graduate Admissions Work with an Advisor Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Like us on Facebook UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms