Meet The Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Environmental Health & Safety About Us Meet The Staff Menu menu Menu About Us Contact Meet The Staff Building Evacuation Plans Covid19 Education & Training Emergency Environmental Fire Safety Forms Indoor Air Quality Lab Safety Policies Guidance Standard Operating Procedures Sop Worker & Campus Safety Meet the Staff Zehra Schneider Graham Director Zehra Schneider Graham is the director of OEHS at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Graham has 20 years of environmental health & safety experience. She has primary responsibility for environmental management and construction issues, environmental permitting and laboratory compliance. She led the environmental management pilot program known as Project XL which culminated in the new EPA Academic Lab Rules. She is the past president of the Alliance of Hazardous Materials Professionals (AHMP), the Campus Consortium for Environmental Excellence (C2E2) and the New England Chapter of Certified Hazardous Material Managers. (NEACHMM).She holds a BS in biology and English from Simmons College, an MS in environmental science from the University of Massachusetts Boston, and an MS in botany from the University of Maine. She is a certified hazardous materials manager (CHMM) and a registered environmental manager (REM). John Dembrowsky Associate Director John Dembrowsky joined OEHS in 2014 as the associate director. Dembrowsky is a certified industrial hygienist (CIH), and he was an associate director of the Environmental Health and Safety Office at Harvard University. Prior to Harvard, he spent eight years with Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research in Cambridge. He also served as an industrial hygiene manager at MIT and Boston University Medical Center. He works closely with the Facilities Department and focuses on indoor air quality, worker safety, and fire prevention. He holds a BS in mechanical engineering as well as an MS in industrial hygiene from UMass Lowell. Lalitha Adusumilli Associate Director Lalitha Adusumilli is an associate director. She joined the OEHS in May 2005. Adusumilli has primary responsibilities in areas of lab safety, hazardous material management, lab safety training, and chemical and biological waste disposal. She has an MS in environmental science from Nagarjuna University, India, and an MS in environmental science from the University of Massachusetts Boston. She is a certified hazardous material manager (CHMM), Registered Biosafety Professional (RBP), and Massachusetts Board Certified Grade -2 industrial wastewater operator. John C. Meyer Lab & Environmental Specialist John Meyer started in January 2015 with the title “hazardous material technician,” working closely with Lalitha Adusumilli in the laboratory safety program. Meyer focuses on hazardous material and inventory control for both research and teaching laboratories including bar-coding and distribution of chemicals. He is a Certified Hazardous Material Manager (CHMM) and also supports hazardous waste collection and general lab safety initiatives. Before joining the Office of Environmental Health and Safety (OEHS), Meyer worked at Clean Harbors Environmental Services Inc. for seven years as a lab pack chemist and field service chemist. John earned his BS in natural science from Saint Anselm College. Jordan Meenaghan OEHS Specialist Jordan joined UMass Boston midway through 2024 after graduating from UMass Lowell with a Bachelor of Environmental Science. He worked for UMass Lowell as an EHS Jr. Technician, inspecting labs and delivering chemical, radiological, and biological packages. During his time at UMass Lowell, he was also a research assistant, analyzing glacial melt in Antarctica. He has obtained his 40hr Hazwoper and 10hr OSHA certifications. Jackson Chan OEHS Technician Jackson joined UMass Boston in June 2024. Living in Pennsylvania for the majority of his life, he graduated from Penn State University and moved up to Massachusetts in June 2022, starting his EHS career at Amazon as a Safety Specialist. Focusing on injury prevention, risk mitigation, hazard analysis and contractor compliance, he assisted with launching Massachusetts' first Amazon Robotics Sortable Fulfillment Center in North Andover, MA., obtaining his OSHA-30 and Hazwoper-24 certification along the way. Thomas Levine OEHS Technician Thomas joined UMass Boston in June 2024 after graduating from Keene State University with a Bachelor of Science in Occupational Health and Safety and earning his Graduate Safety Professional (GSP) credentials. Thomas's studies have focused on safety management systems, compliance, and inspection, having completed an internship where he conducted an internal audit of a medical device firm to ensure their systems and reporting were in compliance with applicable state and federal standards. Sarah Phou Business and Operations Manager Sarah Phou joined the University of Massachusetts Boston in 2019. She assists OEHS with general office management and procurement, and provides support for Youth Programs. Her role with Emergency Management is heavily focused on the Travel Registry program and Business Continuity, with additional responsibilities around emergency and enterprise risk management. The Office of Environmental Health & Safety Service & Supply Building Upper Level, Room 002, Contact 617.287.5445 (Telephone) 617.287.3855 (Fax) umbehs@umb.edu Other Resources Office of Emergency Management and Business Continuity UMass Boston Police Department University Health Services Facilities Department UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms