Exercise & Health Sciences BS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Exercise & Health Sciences BS Home Academics Majors & Programs Exercise & Health Sciences BS Request Info Loading... Gain health science experience through evidence-based practice. As a student in the Exercise and Health Sciences BS program at UMass Boston, you will develop a strong foundation in the science of exercise, nutrition, and health. With a focus on evidence-based practice and practical experience, you will gain the skills and tools you need to help individuals and communities achieve better health and wellness. In this program, you will: Gain a deep understanding of the science behind exercise and health, with coursework covering topics such as anatomy, physiology, nutrition, and exercise prescription Experience hands-on learning, with opportunities to gain real-world experience through internships, research projects, and community engagement initiatives Emerge prepared for a career in a variety of settings, from clinical and community-based health programs to corporate wellness programs and private practice. Career Possibilities Help others on their path to physical betterment as a physical trainer or fitness instructor. Join your favorite sports team as a strength and conditioning trainer. Or, work in a clinical setting to facilitate major breakthroughs as a research assistant. Whatever your goals may be, your education is designed to support you. Become a: Physical Therapist Exercise Physiologist Health Coach Occupational Therapist Research Coordinator Nutritionist Strength and Conditioning Coach Corporate Wellness Coordinator Plan Your Education How to Apply Please review the first-year and transfer apply pages for important information about application requirements, deadlines, and application status check. Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Deadlines & Cost Early action deadline: November 1; Regular Decision Deadline: June 15 Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu. Curriculum Core Courses (42 Credits) BIOL 207 - Anatomy and Physiology I 4 Credit(s) BIOL 208 - Anatomy and Physiology II 4 Credit(s) EHS 120 - Careers in Exercise & Health 3 Credit(s) EHS 160 - Fitness & Wellness 3 Credit(s) EHS 230 - Strength and Conditioning 3 Credit(s) EHS 260 - Physical Activity & Health 3 Credit(s) EHS 280 - Statistics for Health Professionals 3 Credit(s) EHS 300 - Health Fitness Assessment 4 Credit(s) EHS 310 - Applied Kinesiology 3 Credit(s) EHS 320 - Adapted Physical Activity 3 Credit(s) EHS 345 - Health Behavior Change 3 Credit(s) EHS 370 - Exercise Program Design 3 Credit(s) EHS 385 - Exercise Physiology I 3 Credit(s) Electives (9 Credits) Take three additional exercise and health science courses. At least one course must be at the 300-level or higher. Internship (12 Credits) EHS 490 - Internship in Exercise Physiology 12 Credit(s) or EHS 491 - Internship in Exercise and Health Sciences 6 Credit(s) and Two EHS electives at the 300-level or higher Graduation Criteria Degree Requirements If this is the student’s only or primary major, the degree requirements below must be completed for graduation. See graduation requirements for more information. University Requirements College of Nursing and Health Sciences Requirements for Bachelor of Science Major Requirements Complete 63 credits from at least 17 courses including 13 required courses, three electives, and an internship requirement (one twelve-credit internship course or one six-credit internship course and two electives). Minimum grade: A minimum grade of C- is required for all major courses. Pass/fail: No courses taken pass/fail may be applied toward the major. Contact Please contact Chanel.fields@umb.edu for questions. Exercise & Health Sciences Learn more about UMass Boston's Exercise & Health Sciences department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Exercise & Health Sciences Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences. Explore Now Program Goals & Outcomes Accreditation by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs means that you will be educated to the standards of the field by faculty members who are experts in their area. Accreditation also provides employers the guarantee that your educational experience has prepared you to meet, and exceed, your field's standards. Employment & Graduate School Students employed or in graduate school within one year of graduation. Accreditation benchmark is 80 percent. Class of 2024: 91 percent Employer Satisfaction Survey This survey is distributed to employers and graduate faculty that employ or instruct students that graduated from the Exercise and Health Science major at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Accreditation benchmark is 85 percent. Class of 2024: 100 percent Graduate Satisfaction Survey This survey is completed anonymously by the graduating class from the Exercise and Health Science major. The survey includes questions regarding satisfaction with academic curriculum, practical experiences, and faculty. Accreditation benchmark is 85 percent. Class of 2024: 100 percent Internship Completion Rate A formal experiential learning experience is the capstone experience for all Exercise and Health Science students at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Accreditation benchmark is 50 percent pass rate. Class of 2024: 100 percent Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms