- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Professor of Political Science Named Kluge Fellow Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Professor of Political Science Named Kluge Fellow 04/09/2020 |
    Elis Mullins Michelle Jurkovich, an assistant professor of political science and affiliated faculty at the McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies, has recently been named one of twelve Kluge Fellows at the John W. Kluge Center at the Library of Congress. She will spend her five-month term continuing her work around food security, economic and social rights, and ethics. “ It seems like a basic thing, but feeding populations is intensely political, even when we wish it were not. ” The internationally competitive fellowship gives early career academics space and $5,000 per month in funding to research an ongoing project in the humanities or social sciences at the library, though scholars whose projects relate to contemporary issues are given special deliberation. Jurkovich’s project, “Good Enough? The Politics of Constructing the Refugee Ration,” addresses the fact that there are more refugees in the world now than any time since World War II, and that figuring out how to sustain these people is a serious challenge. “Especially for encamped refugee communities with limited mobility, these rations provide the full basket of household food available,” Jurkovich said. “Household health and dignity are tied to the composition of these rations in complex ways, and yet contemporary rations for refugee camps are often woefully inadequate.” In “Good Enough?” Jurkovich evaluates the history of ration packages and how authorities decided what a “good enough” ration should be, as well as analyzing how stereotyping and racism, the language of science and nutrition, and the idea of an “appropriate” diet have affected what goes into refugee rations. “I believe that everyone should be entitled to enough nutritious food to live a healthy and dignified life,” said Jurkovich. “It seems like a basic thing, but feeding populations is intensely political, even when we wish it were not.” About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms