Sustainable Marine Aquaculture - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Sustainable Marine Aquaculture Home Academics Majors & Programs Sustainable Marine Aquaculture Learn More Get the inside scoop on the Aquaculture experience, career outcomes, events, and more. First Name Last Name Email Address Phone Number Learn to unpack key issues and challenges facing the sustainable seafood industry. UMass Boston’s Sustainable Marine Aquaculture Certificate focuses on preparing you to successfully address key issues and challenges facing the aquaculture industry to ensure sustained growth. It’s designed for professionals already working in the field, students who are looking to gain additional industry expertise, and individuals trying to break into the aquaculture industry who want to hone their skills and add a certification to their résumé. Learn the business of aquaculture—the breeding, rearing, and harvesting of fish, shellfish, plants, algae, and other organisms in all aquatic environments—and explore ways to make this growing and rapidly expanding industry more sustainable. With an Aquaculture Certificate, you can work in both the private and commercial sectors as an oyster farmer, seaweed cultivator, or processor, or you could work on a fish farm as a technician, general worker, scientist, engineer, or manager. You could also work for a regulatory agency working towards maintaining healthy sustainable practices. If you’re trying to break into the growing and rapidly expanding aquaculture industry, you’re already working in the field, or you are a student looking to add additional expertise to your résumé, sign up to take a course or to declare the certificate program. We offer courses and certificates for academic credit and for continuing education credits. Taking an aquaculture class could also help you secure an internship working outdoors and on the oceans. All courses in UMass Boston’s Sustainable Marine Aquaculture program are open to the UMass Boston community as well as students from other universities and the public. Our goal is to provide a flexible and accessible introduction to this emerging field and so offer a variety of options to suit your individual needs. Outcomes At the end of this two-semester program, you’ll be awarded a professional certificate in Sustainable Marine Aquaculture. After taking online aquaculture classes from UMass Boston, you will have a basic foundation in the field of aquaculture. The certificate will demonstrate your expertise in the field on your résumé, as well as in interviews and workplace evaluations. This certificate prepares you for a career in commercial and private sectors and regulatory agencies, as well as multiple other careers. You could work for a fish farm, oyster farmer, seaweed cultivator, or processor both in the commercial and private sectors. Fish farms hire technicians and general workers to: carry out collection feed monitor stock identify any problems or diseases run the hatchery to provide a consistent inventory to new stock Fish farms hire scientists to implement strategies that will maintain the healthy growth of fish stocks. Fish farms hire engineers to be in charge of equipment and machinery such as water pumps, water treatment devices, boats, and upwellers. Managers oversee everything and deal with budgets and accounting, client meetings and sales, risk assessment, and insurance and policy-related issues. With your certificate in Sustainable Marine Aquaculture, you could also work for a regulatory agency working towards maintaining healthy sustainable practices. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Credit-bearing Courses Current UMass Boston students: register for credit-bearing courses through the WISER system . Guest (non-degree) students: register for credit-bearing courses through UMass Boston Online & Continuing Education Non-credit Courses Current UMB students & Guest (non-degree) students: register for non-credit courses through UMass Boston Online & Continuing Education Deadlines & Cost Credit-bearing The credit bearing program consists of three 3-credit courses, or 9 credits. Online tuition is $410 per credit. Total estimated cost to complete the program is $3,690. Estimate is based on completing program by minimum duration. Other fees may apply. Request Info to connect with a program representative for further details. Non-credit The non-credit bearing program consists of three courses. Online tuition is $500 per course. Total estimated cost to complete the program is $1,500. Estimate is based on completing program by minimum duration. Other fees may apply. Request Info to connect with a program representative for further details. Curriculum Credit-bearing Certificate Required Courses Introduction to Sustainable Marine Aquaculture (ENVSCI 114) Aquaculture Production (ENVSCI 124) The Business of Marine Aquaculture (ENVSCI 134) Electives (Choose one) Introduction to Environmental Policy & Management (ENVSCI 122) The Nature of Environmental Problems (ENVSTY 101) Sustainability: It’s Not Easy Being Green (ENVSCI 105) Non-credit Certificate Required Courses Introduction to Sustainable Marine Aquaculture (ENVSCI 114) Aquaculture Production (ENVSCI 124) The Business of Marine Aquaculture (ENVSCI 134) Graduation Criteria Credit-bearing Complete 12 credits from four courses including three required courses and one elective. Non-credit Complete 9 credits from three required courses. Contact Aquaculture Program Coordinator: Jennifer Bender (617) 287-7440 jennifer.bender [at] umb.edu School for the Environment Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our School for the Environment. Explore Now Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) SARA Compliance, Disclosure & Dispute Resolution UMass Boston programs are designed to meet the requirements for licensure or certification in Massachusetts. Please contact your state licensing or certification board to determine whether the program meets the requirements for licensure or certification in other states. Learn More about SARA UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms