Description of Regular Session Tuition & Fees - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Bursar Tuition & Fees Description of Regular Session Tuition & Fees Menu menu Menu Plan to Pay Financial Responsibility Agreement Tuition & Fees Regular Session Tuition & Fees Special Price Program Tuition Fees Tuition & Fee Waivers New Pricing Structure Effective Fall 2022 Description of Regular Session Tuition & Fees Payment Information Student Refunds Health Insurance Bookstore Advance Student Tax Information Forms Assistance Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Description of Regular Session Tuition & Fees The University Board of Trustees, President’s Office, and Massachusetts Board of Higher Education determine or approve all tuition, mandatory fees, tuition credits/waivers, fees and charges. This list is not exhaustive.  Other fees and charges may apply. Regular Session Tuition & Mandatory Fees Tuition rates and mandatory fees are established annually by the University Board of Trustees .  Annual tuition is set for in-state and out-of-state undergraduate and graduate students.  The New England Regional rate is determined using the out-of-state rate and a discount allowed by the Massachusetts Board of Higher Education and the University Board of Trustees.  Annual tuition can be broken down to semester and per-credit rates. The Technology Fee supports the technology infrastructure and educational environment necessary to meet the technological demands of the UMass Boston community. Mandatory Student Activities fees are set by student government by vote of the student body and approved by the University Board of Trustees. Student Activity Fees support programs and activities from recognized student organizations that are beneficial to students and enrich current campus student life, including arts, athletics, clubs and recreation and other student-focused programs. The MBTA Subsidy fee is a mandatory, student-voted fee enacted to further subsidize the cost of MBTA use by undergraduate students. The fee revenue generated increases the 11% discount provided by the MBTA to 50% on a first-come, first-served basis each semester. See MBTA Pass program or the FAQ in Parking for details. Special Price Tuition & Fees Special price tuition rates are approved annually (or mid-year by special request) by the President’s Office under the authority of University Board of Trustees Other Fees and Charges Other fees and charges, including those for Administrative services (athletic facilities rental, library fees and fines, etc.) and Auxiliaries (dining plans, parking, etc.) are approved annually (or mid-year by special request) by the President’s Office under the authority of University Board of Trustees Application Fees Each application for admission to the university from a student seeking a degree must be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee payment. Checks should be made payable to “The University of Massachusetts-Boston” and submitted together with completed application forms. Other Required Regular Session Fees College of Management Curriculum and Service Fee is used to support the College of Management's educational mission.  This fee will be assessed per semester to all undergraduate students with more than 60 credits and all graduate students. Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences - Nursing Curriculum and Service Fee is used to support the College of Nursing and Health Science’s educational mission.  This fee is assessed per semester to all undergraduate students with more than 60 credits and all graduate students. Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences - Exercise & Health Sciences Curriculum and Service Fee is used to support the EHS program's educational mission.  This fee is assessed per semester to all undergraduate students with more than 60 credits and all graduate students. College of Education and Human Development - Field Experience Management and Assessment Fee (Originally CEHD E-Portfolio Fee) is used to support the Office of Field Experience during the field placement process. The fee also supports supervision and assessment-related activities during field experiences, including pre-practicum, practicum, and/or internship courses. This fee is assessed once (with lifetime access to the system) to undergraduate and graduate students whose programs utilize the services of CEHD’s Office of Field Experience and/or whose programs require electronic management of assessment, accreditation, and licensure materials. Combined New Student Fee is a one-time fee assessed to each certificate and degree seeking student in their first semester.  The fee may not be canceled or refunded unless the student withdraws prior to the first day of classes. SGISD E-Portfolio Fee (Rehab Counseling) is a one-time fee for students entering certain programs within the School for Global Inclusion and Social Development to cover the cost of electronic portfolios. Graduation Processing Fee is a one-time, non-refundable fee assessed to all certificate or degree seeking students when they apply to graduate whether they intend to participate in commencement activities or not. This fee includes costs related to the printing of diplomas, purchase of academic regalia, printing and distribution of publications, expenses for convocation and commencement ceremonies. For further information, please visit: https://www.umb.edu/commencement Identification Card Fee is used to support the cost of making/activating the identification cards (Beacon Card); all new students are charged the fee in the first semester of attendance to obtain cards, and all continuing students are charged the fee each fall for reactivation New students can pick up their Beacon Card in the BeaconCard Office . International Student Fee is a per-credit fee charged each semester to all international students holding visas. Non-Degree Registrar's Service Fee is charged each semester to non-degree students for prepayment of all record copying services. This is a life-long service for the copying and mailing of academic records at anytime, either for personal use or for forwarding to third parties. Orientation Fee is a one-time fee assessed to each new and transfer certificate or degree seeking student.  This fee is used to support orientation, advising, registration, and transition to the university. Program Fee Each degree-seeking graduate student is required to maintain continuous registration until the degree that the student is seeking has been formally awarded. If a graduate student does not register for course, thesis, or dissertation credits during any semester, the student must pay a program fee to maintain continuous registration. Note: Payment of the program fee does not extend the time limit for completion of the degree, nor does it make a student eligible for student loan deferments. Student Health Insurance is mandatory for all students unless they can prove separate coverage and receive a waiver from the Bursar's Office. The Student Health Insurance waiver must be filed each academic year. Optional Fees Charges for optional fees are billed to matriculated students only. Instructional video: How to waive optional fees MassPIRG Fee : The Massachusetts Student Public Interest Research Group (MASSPIRG) is a statewide, student-directed, student-funded, nonpartisan advocacy organization working on environmental, consumer, higher education, voter registration, and hunger and homelessness issues. MASSPIRG student chapters across the state pool resources through a waivable fee each semester and hire professional staff to work with students on these issues. Volunteer, leadership, and internship opportunities are available for students on campus.  Students can waive fee on WISER during the semester. For more information about MASSPIRG visit www.masspirgstudents.org . Mass Media Fee provides sustained funding for the operating costs of UMass Boston's student newspaper. Students can waive fee on WISER during the semester. http://www.umassmedia.com Renewable Energy Fee is an “opt-in” fee and is used specifically for renewable energy initiatives on the UMass Boston campus.  The revenue is administered by students through the UMass Renewable Energy Trust ( UMRET ). Tuition Surcharge for Credit Hours in Excess of Degree Requirements The Massachusetts Board of Higher Education requires all universities and state colleges to assess a tuition surcharge to students who exceed 118 percent of required credits in an academic degree program. This surcharge applies to in-state undergraduates and students enrolled through the New England Regional Exchange Program and is equal to the non-resident tuition rate per credit. Students who transferred to UMass Boston are exempt. Transfer credits completed after enrolling at UMass Boston are excluded from the total of credits earned. Credits earned for programs requiring more than 120 credits are excluded. For further information, contact the Registrar's Office at 617.287.6200. Connect Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 STUDENT INQUIRIES Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday: 10:00 am to 4:00 pm Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing. TELLER HOURS (Student Payments & Departmental Deposits) Monday – Friday: 8:30 am – 4:00 pm INTERNAL BUSINESS FOR UMB DEPARTMENTS Phone: Contact the Bursar Office staff directly or email BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday 8:30 am to 4:00 pm Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms