Moakley - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Moakley Chair of Peace and Reconciliation Home Moakley Menu menu Menu Projects Padraig Omalley Publications Support About Us The work of the Moakley Chair addresses the tragic crisis of divided societies around the world, in large part, by reinforcing a commitment to nonviolent methods among all participants in the reconciliation process. Central to the mission of the Moakley Chair is encouraging McCormack students to be participants in the chair’s work by providing them with real policy- and peacemaking experience. Guiding principles of the chair’s work: People from divided societies are in the best position to help people in other divided societies. Former protagonists are best equipped to share their difficult journeys to abandon violence as the instrument to achieve their political aims and open the gateways to recovery, reconstruction, and reconciliation. Securing the initially established peace can be fostered by citizens of divided cities working together in jointly sponsored, sustainable development and environmental restoration projects that directly benefit the citizenry and build a foundation of cooperation for the future, i.e.,  they can do together what they cannot do individually. Moakley Biography John Joseph “Joe” Moakley was born in nearby South Boston on April 27, 1927. He was elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives the year that Tip O'Neil was elected to the U.S. House and John F. Kennedy was elected to the Senate: 1952. Studying evenings, he graduated from law school at Suffolk University in 1956. According to a biography at his alma mater, “His legal education helped bring out his extraordinary character as he went on to make life better for untold numbers of people - not only his constituents, but also people across the state and around the world.” His early political career also included positions as a state senator (1965-1970) and a Boston city councilor (1971-1972) before going on to fill the congressional seat once held by Speaker John W. McCormack. Elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1973, Moakley proudly represented the Massachusetts’ 9th District for nearly 30 years. As chairman of the House Rules Committee, he was one of the most powerful members of  Congress. His investigation of the murder of six Jesuits in El Salvador paved the way to a peaceful settlement between the rebels and the Salvadoran government. Moakley was considered an “average Joe” and is fondly remembered as a compassionate and capable public servant. One staffer described him this way, “A self-described ‘bread and butter’ politician, Moakley devoted himself to the bedrock concerns of his constituents: education, jobs, housing, health care, veteran’s benefits, and the prosperity of his city, his state, and his region.” Under his leadership Boston benefited from many economic and other improvements including development of the waterfront, clean-up of the harbor, funding for the “Big Dig” and third Harbor Tunnel, as well as passage of landmark legislation resulting in affordable housing. Moakley died of leukemia in 2001. In 2002, the John Joseph Moakley Chair for Peace and Reconciliation was established in his memory at the McCormack Graduate School of Policy Studies. Padraig O'Malley is the first to hold the chair. Congressman Moakley delivering the 1986 Commencement address Read more about the life and legacy of Moakley Read this special edition of the New England Journal of Public Policy , edited by Padraig O'Malley. Read More The Two-State Delusion The Two-State Delusion Carlo Strenger writes that Padraig O'Malley book is a "refreshing departure from the blame game" in which sides try "to make the other side responsible for the peace process’s failure." UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms