Conduct - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students Student Employment Conduct Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment Community Service Conduct Contact Disciplinary Procedures Eligibility Federal Work Study Hiring Off Campus Work Study Paperwork Resources For Employers Rest Periods Wage Guidelines University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Conduct Employers rely on their employees to keep their organizations running. This is true of all employees, whether they are permanent, temporary, or student workers. Thus, it is important that you take your job seriously. Below are some things to keep in mind in your student job. Arrive on time. Your employer has planned the office workload around the times you will be there. If you will be late for any reason, call ahead and let your supervisor know. Dress appropriately. Be sure to ask what the appropriate dress is for the office. Students representing the university in customer service positions may be expected to dress differently than those working in positions that have no contact with people outside the office. Plan on working your whole shift. Unfortunately, each year we hear that a student has interpreted "work-study" to mean that he/she gets paid to study. This is not the case. Your employer will be expecting you to work during your scheduled shift. Do not plan on doing your homework or other personal business while you are on the job. Keep your supervisor informed. If you are sick or will need to miss work, talk to your supervisor as soon as possible. By contacting your supervisor in advance, he/she has the opportunity to reschedule your hours and work tasks so that neither you or the office is put in an awkward situation. Class schedules sometimes change, vacations occur, and papers and finals are part of the academic life. If these events impact your work schedule, talk to your supervisor about it. Students are not allowed to work during times in which they are scheduled to be in class. Let your supervisor know about problems on the job. Your supervisor is your first contact if you are having any difficulties in your student job. He/she can assist you in identifying the source of the problems and determining how to resolve the issue. Whether you are having trouble operating a particular office machine or are having trouble working with someone else in the office, let your supervisor know so that he/she can help. Play an active role in your evaluation. The skills you develop in your student job will play a role in what opportunities are available for you upon graduation. The relationship between the supervisor and student employee is stronger when performance information is shared. The supervisor has the opportunity to point out both strengths and weaknesses, and the student has the opportunity to learn how he/she can continue improving his/her performance. Your employer should evaluate your work at the end of each semester. SES provides employers with evaluation forms to guide the employer and employee through the process. If you must resign, give two weeks notice. If, for any reason, you need to resign from a position, it is important to provide your supervisor with at least two weeks notice. Your supervisor relies on you for the tasks that are a part of your job, and thus, he/she will need to begin the search for your replacement. Thus, it is important to provide your supervisor with fair warning of your departure. If you are leaving an FWS positions, a job change form must be completed and signed by both you and your current supervisor before you can begin a new position. This paperwork is available in SES. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms