Laws & Regulations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Civil Rights & Title IX Laws & Regulations Menu menu Menu ADA & Accommodations Sexual Respect & Title IX Civil Rights Resolution Process Policies & Forms Laws & Regulations File a Complaint Get Support & Resources Contact Us Laws and Regulations Title VII Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is a federal law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, and sex. It is enforced by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. ADEA The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 prohibits age discrimination in the workplace against people who are age 40 or older. This act is enforced by the U.S. Department of Labor. Title IX Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972 is a federal law that addresses gender discrimination and sexual harassment in educational institution programs. It provides that no person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other education program or activity offered by the university. This act is enforced by the Office of Civil Rights, under the U.S. Department of Education. Section 504 Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 is a federal law that requires the university to make their programs accessible to qualified students with disabilities. This act is enforced by the US Department of Education. ADA The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 prohibits discrimination against a qualified individual with a disability who is an employee or applicant and may require reasonable accommodations that do not pose an undue burden on the university. MGL 151B Massachusetts state law prohibits workplace discrimination on the basis of race, color, religious creed, national origin, ancestry, sex, gender identity, age, criminal record (inquiries only), disability, mental illness, retaliation, sexual harassment, active military personnel, and genetics. In addition, employers have an affirmative responsibility to provide parental leave to biological and adoptive parents. The Clery Act The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act of 1990 is the landmark federal law that requires the university to disclose information about crime on and around campus, such as murder, robbery, aggravated assault, arson, and arrests. The act is enforced by the U.S. Department of Education. VAWA The Violence Against Women Act of 1994 is a federal law that requires the university to report sex offenses such as forcible and nonforcible rape and sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. The act also requires that the university adopt notify victims of their rights and enforce a policy to address and prevent campus sexual violence. Campus SaVE Act The Campus Sexual Violence Elimination Act of 2013 refers to amendments to VAWA that amended the Clery Act. This act expanded the requirements of reporting, responding, and preventing on campus rape, acquaintance rape, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. FERPA The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 is a federal law that protects the privacy of student education records. A student has the right to have access to their education records, the right to seek to have the records amended, the right to have control over the disclosure of personally identifiable information from the records (except in certain circumstances specified in the FERPA regulations), and the right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education. The term "education records" is defined as those records that contain information directly related to a student and which are maintained by an educational agency or institution or by a party acting for the agency or institution. FERPA generally prohibits the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information derived from education records. Thus, information that an official obtained through personal knowledge or observation, or has heard orally from others, is not protected under FERPA. This remains applicable even if education records exist which contain that information, unless the official had an official role in making a determination that generated a protected education record. Office of Civil Rights & Title IX Quinn Administration Building, 3rd Floor phone: 617.287.7391 email: Civilrights.titleix@umb.edu File a Complaint Get Support & Resources Contact Us UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms