In the Media - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Gaston Institute In the Media Menu menu Menu About Canala Contact Core Programs In the Media Partners Publications Research Support Us In the Media Brazil’s ‘Copycat’ Coup Swiftly Condemned — Unlike in the US, Local Expert Says › GBH | January 11, 2023 Just days after the second anniversary of the January 6 coup attempt at the U.S. Capitol, Brazil experienced an insurrection of its own this past weekend. Supporters of the far-right former president Jair Bolsonaro stormed Brazil's capital buildings in protest of Bolsonaro's loss to the recently sworn-in Lula da Silva. Eduardo Siqueira, professor of environment and public health and coordinator of the Transnational Brazilian Project, joined GBH to discuss the attack on Brazil's capital buildings. New Report Addresses Barriers Faced by Massachusetts Latinos › Associated Press | May 11, 2022 While the diverse Latino population in Massachusetts continues to struggle through the pre-pandemic issues of reduced educational and economic opportunity, and health care disparities, there is reason for optimism, according to a new report. Even though Massachusetts is among the nation’s wealthiest states, Latino communities have struggled economically relative to Latinos nationwide, according to the report by the Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy, Boston Indicators, and the Latino Equity Fund. Candidates Appeal to Latino Voters › Bay State Banner | October 12, 2021 Making up just over 15 percent of the city’s electorate, Latino voters could be a major influence in deciding who sits in the mayor’s office next. At the same time, low voter turnout and diverse political leanings across the community could prove a challenge to campaigns in coming weeks. “Their participation rates have been going up in the midterms and the general election … The problem is that this particular election is an off year,” said Luis Jiménez, an associate professor of political science and researcher on Latino voting habits across the Bay State. He said successfully engaging Latino voters — or any voting bloc — could sway November’s outcome if the turnout remains low. “I think Latinos have the potential to have a huge impact, because of very low participation. I mean, I expect that anything can make the difference, really, when you have such few votes,” Jiménez said. Why a Guaranteed Minimum Income Makes Sense for the State’s Hardest Hit Communities › The Boston Globe | May 12, 2021 Mauricio Gastón Institute Research Assistant Bansari Kamdar shares that by the end of 2020, Latino workers in Massachusetts were still twice as likely as white workers to be unemployed. UMass Report Explores How Bostonians Experience Aging › Dorchester Reporter | March 08, 2021 Six institutes and centers at the UMass Boston each contributed to a new report entitled “Aging Strong for All: Examining Aging Equity in the City of Boston.” The new report documents disparities across three dimensions that impact our quality of life — economic security, health, and social engagement — and also identifies opportunities for stakeholders to promote an environment in which “aging strong” is possible for all Boston residents. What Kind of Boston Will the Next Mayor Be Inheriting? › The Boston Globe | February 18, 2021 Associate Professor of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Lorna Rivera, tells The Boston Globe that she thinks the city needs to continue to find ways to fund essential programs and services despite the pandemic-induced economic uncertainty. Op-Ed: Mass. Latinos Grow in Visibility, Influence as Part of the New Majority › Boston Business Journal (paywall) | January 05, 2021 In this op-ed on how Massachusetts Latinos have made gains in visibility, influence, and representation in 2020, the author points to the appointment of Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco, the first Latino to lead a campus in the state’s public university system. UMass Boston is close to reaching the 25 percent benchmark for becoming a Hispanic Serving Institution, making this a key higher ed appointment. The author also mentions that the Gaston Institute released a first-of-its-kind mapping and report of Latino nonprofits, with recommendations on how to build capacity for these organizations to broaden their reach and ensure they can grow strategically. Trump Improves With Massachusetts’ Latinx Voters › GBH All Things Considered | November 10, 2020 Joe Biden won Massachusetts handily in the presidential election, but President Donald Trump did better than a lot of people were expecting in communities with large Latinx populations, including cities like Lawrence and New Bedford. GBH All Things Considered host Arun Rath discussed the Latinx vote with Assistant Professor of Political Science Luis Jiménez, with the college's Gaston Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy. Latino Voters’ Turnout Could Be Critical In 2020 Election › WBUR | October 29, 2020 The gap between Latino voter turnout and that of other groups is significant both in Massachusetts and nationwide. A new report from the Gastón Institute at UMass Boston found that though Latino turnout saw a spike in the 2018 midterm elections, it still trailed that of white voters by 16 percentage points and Black voters by 4.3 percentage points. Boston Is Usually Undercounted in the Census: This Year May Be Worse › The Boston Globe | July 27, 2020 A UMass Boston study of barriers to census participation commissioned by the city of Chelsea found that even some community leaders in the city wouldn’t necessarily recommend their constituents participate because of deportation concerns. Report Examines COVID-19 in Latino Community › BNN News | July 08, 2020 Gastón Institute Director Lorna Rivera and Associate Professor of Environment and Public Health Eduardo Siqueira discuss their new report outlining the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on the Latino population in Massachusetts, as well as recommendations for curbing the spread of new infections. COVID-19 Disproportionately Impacting Hispanic Communities in Massachusetts › WWLP | July 01, 2020 According to a study from the Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy at UMass Boston, Latinos in Massachusetts account for 30 percent of all COVID-19 cases even though they account for just over 12 percent of the population. Chelsea Residents’ Needs Will Be Overlooked Without Accurate Census Count › The Boston Globe | June 21, 2020 Lorna Rivera, director of the Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy, announced that the institute partnered with the City of Chelsea help the Latinx community complete the 2020 census so the community can receive the support it needs. Researcher at UMass Boston Awarded $100,000 Leadership Prize › The Boston Globe | May 26, 2020 A UMass Boston researcher who works to protect marginalized communities from being disproportionately affected by climate change has been awarded a $100,000 prize to advance her work. Sustainable Solutions Lab Director Rebecca Herst has received the 2020 Zuckerberg Endowed Leadership Prize. Preliminary Data Show Coronavirus Hitting Blacks in Boston More Than Other Groups › Medical Health News | April 10, 2020 Paul Watanabe, director of the Institute for Asian American Studies and professor of political science, and Lorna Rivera, director of the Gaston Institute for Latino Public Policy, join new COVID-19 Health Inequities Task Force. Brockton Vigil Sends Prayers to Puerto Rico › The Enterprise | February 25, 2020 A study from the Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development found there are around 10,000 Latinos who live in Brockton. The biggest group among those are Puerto Ricans. Talk of the Neighborhoods: UMass Boston Gastón Institute/Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley › Boston Neighborhood News | February 20, 2020 Lorna Rivera, director of the Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy, talks about the institute's work on Latino community development and policy issues and its 30th Anniversary breakfast celebration coming up on March 12. Latino Pay Disparity Is an Issue for Us All (Editorial) › The Republican | February 11, 2020 The Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy's new study finds that Latinos are paid better in Massachusetts than across the country, but they still earn less than their non-Latino counterparts regardless of educational background. Phillip Granberry, the lead author and a Gastón research associate, said, "Every way we looked at an explanation for why Latinos make lower wages, we couldn’t find one." UMass Boston Study Finds Significant Wage Gap for Massachusetts Latinos › The Republican | February 05, 2020 The Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy's new study finds that Latinos are paid better in Massachusetts than across the country, but they still earn less than their non-Latino counterparts regardless of educational background. How Boston City Councilor Julia Mejia Found Her Voice › The Boston Globe | January 13, 2020 Lorna Rivera, the director of UMass Boston’s Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy, says new Boston City Councilor Julia Mejia "can speak across social classes.” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms