Journal Articles - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Institute for Asian American Studies Publications Journal Articles Menu menu Menu About Census Publications Journal Articles Newsletters Research Journal Articles The following articles were produced based upon research supported in part by the Institute for Asian American Studies. Health Disparities in the Use of Primary Cesarean Delivery among Asian American Women Yuqing Zhang, Lisa Heelan-Fancher, Suzanne Leveille, and Ling Shi Using birth registry data from 1992 to 2014 for a northeastern U.S. state, the researchers analyzed the rates of primary cesarean delivery for Asian American women as a whole, and for Asian American women of Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese descent. This article is open access. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 2023, 20, 6860 "Virtual Ethnic Town Hall": WeChat and Suburban Chinese Migrants' Multidirectional Activism Lisong Liu This article focuses on a suburban Chinese community in Greater Boston and examines its 2017 and 2018 debates on WeChat concerning the controversial Asian American data disaggregation bill H.3361. The author identified four different and subtle positions on the bill, revealing that suburban Chinese migrants are not a monolithic group and those opposing the bill are not always conservatives. Journal of American Ethnic History (2023) 42 (3): 5–39 Asian American nursing students’ experiences of racial microaggressions amid the COVID-19 pandemic: Focus group discussions Sun S. Kim, Teresa M. Eliot Roberts, Jannat E. Khusbo, Wichita Watriboonruang, Ashley Parks, and Jessica Lewczyk Focus groups were conducted with Asian American nursing students in the Boston area during the early part of the COVID-19 pandemic. Participants discussed positive and negative coping methods in facing racial microaggressions and other stressors. Nurse Education in Practice, Volume 64, October 2022, 103459 Gambling behavior of ethnic Chinese and Vietnamese college students in the United States Carolyn Wong and Hsin-Ching Wu Young adults as well as people from immigrant and racial-ethnic minority backgrounds can be at risk for problem gambling. In this study, developed and conducted by IAAS, 653 college students at a public university were surveyed about their gambling behavior. The main goal was to investigate gambling problems and risk for problem gambling among Chinese and Vietnamese American college students with comparative data for Black, Latino, and white students collected as well. The findings are intended to assist in the development of effective preventative education, screening and treatment programs. International Gambling Studies, DOI: 10.1080/14459795.2019.1646779 Note that if you do not have access through a subscription to the journal, you will only be able to view the abstract. For a copy of the full article, contact carolyn.wong@umb.edu. Visualizing Air Pollution: Communication of Environmental Health Information in a Chinese Immigrant Community Carolyn Wong, Hsin-Ching Wu, Ekaterina G. Cleary, Allison P. Patton, Alan Xie, Georges Grinstein, Susan Koch-Weser and Doug Brugge Carolyn Wong, Research Associate at IAAS, lead a team of researchers from UMass Boston, UMass Lowell, and Tufts University who studied the role of computer visualization in promoting health literacy on the toxic effects of highway pollution in Boston Chinatown. This article focuses on the intergenerational learning sessions which involved high school youth and adults recruited from English as a Second language classes and a community workshop. Journal of Health Communication, DOI: 10.1080/10810730.2019.1597949 Note that if you do not have access through a subscription to the Journal, you will only be able to view the abstract. For a copy of the full article, contact carolyn.wong@umb.edu. Making Air Pollution Visible: A Tool for Promoting Environmental Health Literacy E.G. Cleary, A.P. Patton, H.C. Wu, A. Xie, J. Stubblefield, W. Mass, G. Grinstein, S. Koch-Weser, D. Brugge, and C. Wong Carolyn Wong, Research Associate at IAAS, lead a team of researchers from UMass Boston, UMass Lowell, and Tufts University who studied the role of computer visualization in promoting health literacy on the toxic effects of highway pollution in Boston Chinatown. The team developed a computer-based map available in Chinese and English and is a prototype that can be adapted for the purpose of educating community members across a range of socioeconomic contexts. JMIR Public Health and Surveillance 2017;3(2):e16 Institute for Asian American Studies Healey Library 10-7 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125-3393 asianaminst@umb.edu 617.287.5650 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms