- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 U.S. News: UMass Boston’s Graduate Programs Among Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications U.S. News: UMass Boston’s Graduate Programs Among Nation’s Best 03/18/2020 |
    Colleen Locke Clinical Psychology, Education, Nursing, Public Affairs Programs All in Top 100 on U.S. News & World Report’s 2021 Best Graduate Schools List UMass Boston's graduate nursing students serve as TAs in the Center for Clinical Education and Research. Image By: Colleen Locke “ There can be no doubt that UMass Boston is on the move, gaining ground in competitive rankings across major fields of study. ” UMass Boston’s graduate programs in clinical psychology, education, nursing, and public affairs are ranked as top 100 programs on U.S. News & World Report ’s 2021 Best Graduate Schools list, released Tuesday. The biggest jumper is UMass Boston’s Master of Nursing, up 17 spots from the 2020 list . “There can be no doubt that UMass Boston is on the move, gaining ground in competitive rankings across major fields of study,” noted Interim Chancellor Katherine Newman. “We are immensely proud of the research record of our faculty and the quality of our students.” Five UMass Boston programs have new top 100 rankings: Clinical Psychology – No. 56 Graduate programs in education – No. 62 , up from No. 66 Master of Nursing – No. 66 , up from No. 83 Master’s programs in public affairs – No. 72 , up from No. 74 Doctor of Nursing Practice – No. 74 UMass Boston’s part-time MBA program is also ranked, at No. 124 . The 2021 edition assesses the six disciplines with some of the largest enrollments: business, law, medicine, nursing, engineering, and education. Although the Best Graduate Schools criteria is different from, say, the Best Nursing Schools, all of the rankings assess both the preparedness of a school's incoming students and the career or academic outcomes of a school's graduates. The authors note that although a graduate degree does not automatically lead to a higher salary, it typically does increase an individual's earning potential. Data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reveals that in 2019, the average earnings of U.S. workers at or above the age of 25 who had advanced degrees surpassed the wages of their peers who had less education. Application deadlines for UMass Boston’s graduate programs are on the Graduate Programs website . To see the full list of rankings, visit the U.S. News & World Report website . About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms