JFK & Ryan Awards - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Undergraduate Studies JFK & Ryan Awards Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Academic Policies For Faculty General Education Requirements JFK & Ryan Awards Writing Proficiency Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office JFK and Ryan Awards JFK Award University of Massachusetts Boston senior Lee-Daniel Tran is the 2023 recipient of the John F. Kennedy Award for Academic Excellence—the highest honor given to UMass Boston graduates. The award is given to the graduating senior who best exemplifies academic excellence, commitment to service, and good citizenship. Winners receive a $1,000 honorarium, a bust of John F. Kennedy, and the opportunity to speak at their commencement ceremony. Recent JFK Award Recipients 2024: Rosita Beatriz Ramirez Ventura 2023: Lee-Daniel Tran 2022: MG Xiong 2021: Maurice Roberson 2020: Maria Vasco Ryan Award The Ryan Award is named for John W. Ryan, who was the first chancellor of the University of Massachusetts Boston. He served from 1965 to 1968. It commemorates the first convocation of UMass Boston and recognizes excellence in the student body. The Ryan Award is given to the student who has achieved the highest cumulative average for four semesters in residence during the freshman-sophomore years. The first Ryan Award was granted in 1971. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms