Grade Submission - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Policies Grade Submission Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Academic Standing Reenrollment Attendance Repeat Change Name Second Degree Previous Degree Course Reuse Sequencing Policies Credit Load University Withdrawal FERPA Grade Submission Graduate Student Statute Limitations Incomplete NA Grade Pass Fail Withdrawal Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Grade Submission PLEASE NOTE : Late grade submissions create problems on students’ records. They delay important reports and prevent registration for future classes when prerequisites are involved. They also create unnecessary processing issues requiring manual intervention. Please take extra care to submit grades on time. Frequently Asked Questions on Grade Rosters I noticed a student missing from my grade roster, how can I submit a grade? All students must be registered for a class in order to receive a grade. If your student is not on your roster, then they must come to the Registrar’s Office to see if they are eligible for a late enrollment. Please note: Late course additions may cause changes in financial aid and the semester bill. Students may find themselves responsible for the full course payment before the grade is added. If the student is approved for a late enrollment then you may send an email from your faculty UMass Boston email account to get.records@umb.edu including the student name, ID number, course information and the grade earned. Frequently Asked Questions on Grade Submissions. When are grades due for the spring and fall semesters? Grades are due the week after final exams. Please check the academic calendar for the final submission date. Please note: Any entered grades left in review status after the final submission date will be posted by the Registrar's Office. When are grades due for the winter and summer semesters? Grades are due one week after the final class. Winter and summer sessions DO NOT HAVE FINAL EXAM PERIODS. Please note: Any entered grades left in review status after the final submission date will be posted by the Registrar’s Office. How do I change a grade? Grade change requests must be initiated by the faculty member who assigned the grade. Changes of grades should only be made if an error in calculation has occurred or the coursework for an incomplete grade has been submitted. Faculty must have approval from their department chair for this type of grade change. Grade changes are not possible after a student’s degree has been conferred. Fill out the paper Change of Grade form and include a written explanation for the change. The course instructor and chairperson Signatures are required. Submit to CC-4-4100 Office of the Registrar for processing. Using your faculty UMass Boston email account, you may submit a change of grade emailing the chairperson the student name and ID number along with the course, semester taken. The chairperson forwards the email with their note of approval to get.records@umb.edu . Can a student challenge the grade submitted by a faculty member? The course instructor has full authority over the assignment of grades, and grades may not be changed without the permission of the instructor.  If a student does not believe the final grade submitted is accurate, it is recommended that they meet with the instructor for clarification.  If the student wants further consultation about the grade the student may request to meet with the chair, the dean and the provost, in that order, for discussion on the matter; however, changes of grades are the discretion of the instructor. I have a student that needs to complete coursework and I want to add a "place holder" grade. How do I do that? The placeholder grade should reflect the student's current grade point average in the class. How do I submit a grade of incomplete (INC) for a student? Please follow the instructions at Course Incomplete Grade Policy How can I change an INC to a grade? Email get.records@umb.edu from your faculty UMass Boston email account with the student name and ID number along with the course info and semester taken. Fill out the paper Change of Grade form found at the Registrar’s Office. The only signature required is the professors. Submit to CC-4-4100 Office of the Registrar for processing. How can I change an NA grade to a grade? It is important to know that once a grade of NA has been placed, it may not be possible to automatically rescind it . If you wish to rescind a student’s NA, you should reach out to the Registrar’s Office before committing to the student. We will reach out to other offices to make sure it is possible and that it won’t create additional issues for the student. If you are using Blackboard for your course, once the NA is removed, we also need to submit a request to reactivate the student in the Blackboard course. Students should know that there can be a delay of up to one business day before reactivation is complete. How can I submit a grade for a course that changed to an ‘IF’? As long as it is within the past 3 years you can fill out the paper Change of Grade form and attach a letter of explanation for the late submission. Submit requests to the Registrar's Office. Please note: All requests are reviewed by a committee and it can take several weeks for processing. Last Date of Attendance FAQs Why is the Last Date of Attendance information required? The University does not require that instructors to take attendance in their courses. The U.S. Department of Education, however, requires ( 34 CFR 668.22 ) the Office of Financial Aid to determine if a student who receives financial aid and fails to earn a passing grade in a course has actually attended and/or completed the course, or if they withdrew from a course without providing the university official notification. In addition, for students who officially withdraw we are required to document that they also began attending the course(s) from which they withdrew in order to determine the type and amount of financial aid they may be eligible to retain. Because a student could be a financial aid applicant at any point during the academic year, we must collect this information for all students, so that financial aid eligibility can be accurately determined. Who must provide the Last Date of Attendance information? Since the instructor is the only person at the institution who can document whether a student attended class or participated in an academically-related activity, this documentation must come from the instructor What if I do not take attendance? If you do not take attendance, you should provide the date of the last known academically-related activity. Examples of academically -related activity are: taking an exam or quiz, computer-assisted instruction, completing an assignment, attending a study group. I f there is no documented attendance or academically-related activity, you must select "Never Attended" What if I do not know if the student attended and I have no record of academic activity? Indicate the student did not attend. According to federal regulations 34 CFR668.21(c), the student is considered to have not begun attendance if the institution is unable to document the student's attendance. What if I saw the student in class but do not take attendance, and there is no academic activity record? If attendance cannot be documented through actual attendance records or an academically -related event, you must report that the student never attended 34 CFR668.21(c) When "early-", "mid-", and "late-month" are the most accurate remembered last dates of attendance, please use the 1st, 15th and 28th for the posted last date of attendance. Select "Never Attended" if attendance cannot be documented What impact is there to the student when "Never Attended" is indicated? The student may have their financial aid reduced or cancelled for the semester. I teach an online class, how do I document attendance? If attendance is not taken, provide the date of the last academically -related activity. Please do not hesitate to reach out to the Registrar’s Office with any questions or concerns. Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms