Student Online Learning Hub - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Training & Classroom Support Student Online Learning Hub Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Student Online Learning Hub Blackboard Orientation For Students AV Services & Classroom Support Badges Test Scanning Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Online Learning Hub Announcements Resources4U is the university's hub for resources aimed at helping UMass Boston students succeed. Learn a new skill with LinkedIn Learning – a new online resource available to all students, faculty, and staff! Welcome to IT's Online Learning Hub for Students, a central place to find info about all the tools and services you may need to learn remotely or online. What Equipment Do I Need to be Successful in My Courses? A laptop or a desktop computer - preferably less than 4 years old. [What are my options if I do not have a computer? - You can borrow a Chromebook . Once you have your Chromebook, visit: umb.edu/it/cloudpc and click on 'Start CloudPc' A Windows or a Mac (OS) computer with the latest version of the operating system. Reliable internet access. A few accessories - Webcam, Speakers - Most all laptops come with a Webcam and Speakers Blackboard - Blackboard Learn is the tool that UMass Boston uses to make learning more effective in and beyond the traditional classroom walls. Visit the Blackboard Orientation For Students page for more information. CloudPC - Don't have a powerful computer at home? "Stream" one with CloudPC, just like streaming a movie on Netflix! Visit our CloudPC page to learn more. echo360 - Student Guide – If your teacher uses Echo360, learn to access tools such as note taking, bookmarking and study tools to boost your learning. VoiceThread - VoiceThread is multimedia software accessible from within Blackboard that your instructor may use to record lectures and videos, create assignments, and more. You may be asked to listen to a weekly lecture, watch a video, complete an assignment, or participate in an audio/video discussion. Learn how to use VoiceThread from within Blackboard to participate in an assignment. Zoom -- a video conferencing collaboration tool that faculty use for classes, meetings, remote presentations, faculty/student meetings, guest lecturer presentations, webinar hosting, virtual classrooms, and virtual office hours, etc. Visit our Zoom For Students page to learn more. All UMass Boston Students can now obtain a free UMass Boston Pro Zoom License by visiting the following link: https://umassboston.zoom.us/ Learn more about the Zoom Meeting Tool by Visiting the Zoom for Students website . Students do NOT need to purchase a Zoom license to participate in Zoom sessions. We are very pleased to announce LinkedIn Learning (formerly lynda.com) as UMass Boston’s new online resource available to all students, faculty, and staff! LinkedIn Learning provides thousands of online courses curated based on the career interests, role, or career path of the learner. It can be a highly personalized learning experience.  Each training topic is delivered in easy-to-manage 2 to 5-minute segments. These video-based tutorials are taught by industry experts and are available 24/7 for convenient, self-paced learning. Benefits to using LinkedIn Learning include: Learn at your own pace any time of day or night The option to watch complete courses or short videos as you need them Up-to-date content to keep skills current or learn new ones Tutorials taught by recognized industry experts Many courses have practice exercises to help you learn Closed captioning and searchable, time-coded transcripts New courses added every week Launch LinkedIn Learning NOTE: Log in with your umb.edu username and password. You will be asked to link your new LinkedIn Learning account with your existing LinkedIn account (if you have one). This is optional, and you can access LinkedIn Learning either way. More info on this will be offered after login. We recommend you start with the following course: How to use LinkedIn Learning. Learn about the new LinkedIn Learning features and improve your professional skills with LinkedIn Learning. Download the LinkedIn Learning app [ link for iOS ] [ link for Android ] Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms