Richard.Hunter - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Richard.Hunter Richard Hunter III Department: Psychology Title: Grad Prog Dir/Assoc Professor Location: McCormack Hall Floor 04 Phone: 617.287.3198 Send Email Biography Richard Hunter is fundamentally interested in how stressful or traumatic life events alter not only the course of our lives but the very structure and function of our brains as well. Why do many, if not most, humans and animals recover quickly from trauma and why do others go on to suffer life long impairments like depression and post traumatic stress disorder? Why does environmental stress cause some to age more rapidly than others? Area of Expertise Neuroendocrinology, Neuropharmacology, Neurobiology of Stress and Epigenetics Degrees PhD, Emory University Professional Publications & Contributions Hunter, R.G., Dominguez, G., Hubert, G.W., Philpot, K.B., Vicentic A. and Kuhar, M.J. CART Peptides in Feeding and Obesity. Trends in Endocrinology and Metabolism. 15(9):454-9, 2004 Hunter, R.G. Lim, M.M., Philpot, K.B., Young, L.J. and Kuhar, M.J. Comparative analysis of CART Peptide and mRNA Expression in Prairie and Meadow Voles. Brain Res. 2005 Jun 28;1048(1-2):12-23. Hunter, R.G., Vicentic, A., Rogge, G. and Kuhar, M.J. Regulation of Nucleus Accumbens CART mRNA levels by Cocaine: a Role for Corticosterone. Eur J Pharmacol. 2005 Jul 4;517(1-2):45-50. Hunter, R.G., Jones, D., Hue, G., Rye, D. and Kuhar, M.J. Nucleus Accumbens CART mRNA is regulated via D3 Receptors. Neuropharmacology. 2006 Jun;50(7):858-64. Hunter, R.G., Romeo, R.D., Bellani, R., Bloss, E, Costa, A. and McEwen, B.S. Regulation of CART mRNA by Stress and Corticosteroids in the Hippocampus and Amygdala. Brain Res. 2007 Jun 4;1152:234-40. Du J., Yun Wang Y., Hunter R.G., Machado-Vieira R., Wei Y., Blumenthal R., Falke C., Chen J.,Zhou R.,Yuan P., McEwen B.S., and Manji, H.K. Dynamic Regulation of Mitochondrial Function by Glucocorticoids. PNAS. 2009 Mar 3;106(9):3543-8. Hunter, R.G., Bellani, R., Bloss, E., Costa, A. and McEwen, B.S. Changes in Kainate Receptor Expression Induced by Chronic Corticosteroids and Restraint Stress. PLoS ONE. 2009;4(1):e4328. Hunter, R.G., McCarthy, K., Milne, T.A., Pfaff, D.W. and McEwen, B.S. Regulation of Hippocampal H3 Histone Methylation by Acute and Chronic Stress. PNAS Epub Nov. 23, 2009. PMC2791599 Eiland, L., Hunter, R.G., Miller, M. and McEwen, B. Stress and anxiety: structural plasticity and epigenetic regulation as a consequence of stress. Neuropharmacology. Neuropharmacology. 2012 Jan;62(1):3-12. Epub 2011 Jul 27. Hunter, R.G., Murakami, G., Dewell, S., Hachen, M., McEwen, B.S., and Pfaff, D.W. Acute stress and hippocampal histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation, a retrotransposon silencing response. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Oct 23;109(43):17657-62. PMID: 23043114 Hunter, R.G. Epigenetic effects of stress and corticosteroids in the brain. Front Cell Neurosci. 2012;6:18. Epub 2012 Apr 19. PMID: 22529779 Hunter, R.G. and McEwen, B.S. Stress and Anxiety Across the Lifespan: Structural Plasticity and Epigenetic Regulation. Epigenomics. 2013 Apr;5(2):177-94. Additional Information To answer these questions, Hunter utilizes a number of rodent models of stress and analyzes the impact of these stress models both on behavior and upon molecular and cellular changes in the nervous system. In particular he is interested in the changes in epigenetic marks and molecules occurring in stress sensitive brain regions like the hippocampus. He has recently shown that one of these marks, Histone H3 lysine 9 trimethyl, a repressive mark, is involved in a genomic stabilizing response within the hippocampus that is targeted at transposable elements within the genome. These elements, which comprise an order of magnitude larger portion of the genome than the genes themselves, are an almost completely unexplored territory with regard to brain function in health or in disease. However, they hold the promise of new understanding of the way the brain adapts, or fails to adapt, to stressful environments. Teaching Psych 250: Learning and Memory Psych 476: Experimental Methods Physiological UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms