William Joiner Institute - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni William Joiner Institute Home William Joiner Institute Menu menu Menu People Celebration & Awards Research & Impact Service & Engagement Resources Email List Support Us Facilitating objective discourse and positive change through research, service & celebration. We celebrate, research, and support veterans past, present, and future. We work to inform, develop, and implement equitable policies, programs, and pathways to help ensure the health, safety, well-being and success of veterans, their families, and others impacted by war or military service, without exception. Veterans' Excellence Award Gala Sponsorship Veterans' Excellence Award Gala Registration Celebration & Awards The Honor-A-Veteran program showcases the outstanding and wide-reaching work that veterans do after their time in uniform. This monthly award is bestowed on a veteran who is nominated for their continued selfless service to the broader community. View the current list of monthly and annual award recipients . Honor-A-Veteran Nominate a veteran for their post-service contributions. Veterans’ Excellence Award Gala Held in March each year to honor post-service work. Theodore D. Parker Award Outstanding service to the community of veterans Research & Impact The Institute’s research portfolio is currently focused on three initiatives designed to ultimately have impacts locally, regionally, and nationally as it relates to: Expanding veterans’ connection to benefits, programs, and opportunities Understanding how younger generation veterans identify and connect Improving veteran and military affiliated student recruitment, retention, and graduation rates Veteran Service Officer (VSO) Support and Resources Study to collect information on capabilities and resources, challenges, and best practices for VSOs across MA. Post-911 Veteran ID & Community Exploring how veteran identify importance influences post-service community and connection. Tri-University Veteran Retention & Graduation Rates Assessing programs, services, and organizational structures to assess effect on recruitment, retention and graduation rates. Service & Engagement The Institute’s service work includes a variety of opportunities to engage veteran and non-veteran students to encourage stronger integration and collaboration to build a coherent and trusted sense of community. VA Work Study PACE Apprenticeships METAVERSE Student Club Podcast Series William Joiner Institute Blog Catch up on the latest news and shared perspectives. Visit the Joiner Blog Thank You for Serving Honoring recent students and staff supporting the Institute. View Honorees Explore the William Joiner Institute Content on this site does not imply formal endorsement or condemnation from the William Joiner Institute or its staff.  Anything shared is provided for any site visitor’s information, use, and engagement as they feel appropriate based on their interests. Who We Are The William Joiner Institute for the Study of War and Social Consequences offers an inclusive setting to objectively facilitate the sharing of ideas, debating of concepts, and discussions of past, present, and future topics related to conflicts, military service, and sacrifice. As a public university research institute, our events, research, and service to veterans, their families or others impacted by war or military service strive to support all points of view. Follow us on Instagram Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on LinkedIn What We Do People: Veterans and non-Veterans all rowing in the same direction. Celebration & Awards Honoring Veterans and non-Veterans who strengthen community. Research & Impact: Seeking actionable recommendations to enhance Veteran support, programs and benefits. Service & Engagement: Explore the opportunities to get involved with the Institute. Archives & History : Search the Institute history and accomplishments Resources: Need help?  Find resources available to you. Where Else Can You Engage Find help on the topics you may be interested in. Stay up to date on our initiatives and projects. Make your tax-deductible gift online. Resources Join Our Email List Support Us Contact Us The William Joiner Institute 100 Morrissey Blvd, Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone: (617) 287-5863 joinerinstitute@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms