Environmental Sciences Professional MS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Environmental Sciences Professional MS Home Academics Majors & Programs Environmental Sciences Professional MS Request Info Loading... Become an expert at the intersection of environmental science, technology, and business. UMass Boston's Environmental Sciences Professional Master's (PSM) program is designed for working professionals and for individuals seeking to an advanced, non-research-based graduate degree. This program is an outgrowth of the need for science enterprises to put science savvy individuals into important positions that require a breadth of skills and knowledge. The PSM is open to those with baccalaureate degrees in a wide range of science, technology, engineering, and math fields, as well as students from other fields who have some undergraduate or professional experience in those areas. The program includes evening and online courses to be convenient to working professionals. The Environmental Sciences Professional Science MS degree directly addresses the need for environmental science enterprise to place cross-trained environmental science and business management professionals into important roles that require a breadth of skills and knowledge. What You Will Learn After completing your Environmental Sciences Professional Science MS you will be prepared to serve as in administrative and management roles that require combined skills of science and business. You will have deep and practical knowledge of the environmental sciences as well as project management and communication. What You Can Do With an Environmental Sciences Professional MS Environmental Sciences Professional Science alumni are employed as sustainability officers, team leaders, department heads, and managers across multiple employment sectors from federal and state environmental agencies to nonprofits to industry. All share in common skills that integrate the environmental policy and science disciplines with management and communications training. These skills are in high demand through the environmental workforce and with these skills alumni are able to maintain professional growth throughout their careers. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Letters of Recommendation: 2 Other: Faculty advisor commitment, 3.0 undergraduate GPA Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Communications Core (3 Credits) Complete one from below. BIOL 650 - Scientific Communication 3 Credit(s) MBAACM 682 - Oral Communication for Managers 3 Credit(s) Environmental Policy, Law, and Management Core (3 Credits) Complete one from below. ENVSCI 670L - Environmental and Energy Economics 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 674L - Climate and Energy: Law, Policy and Management 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 675L - Economics of Renewables: Marine and Energy Resources 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 726L - Coastal Zone Policy, Planning, and Management 3 Credit(s) MBA AF 631 - Sustainable Finance and Impact Investing 3 Credit(s) Quantitative Analysis Core (3 to 4 Credits) Complete one from below. ENVSCI 601 - Introduction to Probability and Applied Statistics 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 611 - Applied Statistics 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 623L - Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 4 Credit(s) Environmental Sciences Core (6 to 7 Credits) Complete two from below. ENVSCI 630 - Biological Oceanography 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 635 - Environmental Toxicology 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 640 - The Chemistry of Natural Waters& 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 641 - The Geochemistry of a Habitable Planet 3 Credit(s) AND ENVSCI 642 - Laboratory for the Geochemistry of a Habitable Planet 1 Credit(s) ENVSCI 646 - Global Ecology 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 657 - Fluvial Hydrology 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 670L - Environmental and Energy Economics 3 Credit(s) Business Management Core (3 Credits) Complete one from below. MBAMGT 650 - Organizational Analysis and Skills 3 Credit(s) Capstone Course (3 Credits) ENVSCI 798 - Internship in Environmental Sciences 1-10 Credit(s) Electives (7 to 9 Credits) Select courses and independent research hours to fulfill the 30 credit hour requirement. Students may select from any of the courses above not already taken or from 600-level or higher courses approved by their faculty mentor. Graduation Criteria Complete 30 credits from at least nine courses including one communications core course; one environmental policy, law, and management core course; one quantitative analysis core course, two environmental sciences core courses, one business management core courses, one capstone course, and seven to nine credits of electives. Capstone: Complete an internship as part of ENVSCI 798. Minimum grade: No courses with a grade below B may be applied toward the program. Students who earn a B- in two courses will be considered no longer in good standing and may be dismissed from the program. Students who receive a grade below C in any graduate course will be dismissed from the program. Grading basis: Courses must be taken graded unless the course is only offered on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 is required from all courses applied toward the program. Residency: Graduate course credits earned at another institution, as a non-degree student, or in another department may only be applied to the program with approval from the thesis/project advisor and graduate program director. Course level: No more than one course taken at UMass Boston at the 300/400-level may be applied toward the program with approval of the thesis/project advisor and graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Seven years. FAQs 1. Should I contact faculty members directly? Yes, reach out and talk to faculty whose research interests you. To be accepted in the program you need a faculty advisor. 2. Is there a separate application I need to fill out to be considered for a teaching assistantship? No, your general application is all that is required. 3. I'm applying for a master's degree, can I still get a teaching assistantship? Possibly, preference is given to doctoral students. 4. Can I start my graduate degree in the spring semester? Yes, however, most students start in the fall semester. 5. Can I get an application fee waiver? In special situations this is possible, please contact the graduate program director directly and discuss your situation. Should you need further assistance please refer to the link below or contact Graduate Program Director Georgia Mavrommati at georgia.mavrommati@umb.edu. Contact Graduate Program Director Michael Tlusty michael.tlusty [at] umb.edu (617) 287-5285 School for the Environment Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our School for the Environment. Explore Now Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms