Soil Management - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Soil Management Menu menu Menu About Us Building Evacuation Plans Covid19 Education & Training Emergency Environmental Mwra Soil Management Stormwater Info Fire Safety Forms Indoor Air Quality Lab Safety Policies Guidance Standard Operating Procedures Sop Worker & Campus Safety Soil Management The Soil Program information explains how thousands of tons of excavated soil from our construction activities is carefully managed and monitored including dust control and capping with clean soil. Construction at UMass Boston—and just about anywhere else—involves excavating soil. The Utility Corridor and Roadway Relocation project alone will generate about 195,000 tons of excavated fill. Excavated material, especially here on the former Columbia Point landfill, includes a variety of other materials in addition to soil. Most of the soil will stay on site for reuse, but approximately 20 percent may not be reusable and will be trucked to appropriate disposal sites. To ensure that soil and excavated material on campus is handled safely and securely, UMass Boston is taking the following measures: Licensed site professionals oversee the soil work on each project. The Office of Environmental, Health & Safety (OEHS) Department at the university monitors this process. Dust control measures including wetting soil and applying green hydro mulch are used when necessary. Street sweepers are used to clean roadways, lots and driveways. Environmental firms work for the Division of Capital Asset Management and Maintenance (DCAMM), the University of Massachusetts Building Authority (UMBA), and for the construction managers examine and characterize soil regularly. At the end of each project, a two-foot cap of clean topsoil will be installed at the surface with the organic make-up to grow plants. Future building site elevations are being raised to address potential rise in sea level. For example, the University Hall site has been raised approximately five feet. As crews install utilities, building foundations and landscaping, they move and stockpile excavated fill for screening, grading, reuse or disposal. During construction, some areas on campus are being used as soil processing and handling areas: Site T near the Beacons Parking Lot, Site S adjacent to Wheatley Hall and the Campus Center, and an area near the Calf Pasture Pumping Station and the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the Study of the United States Senate. Asbestos in Soil In December 2015 low levels of asbestos were detected in soil samples. The University immediately reported to the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) and UCRR construction contractors decided to stop soil excavation work in landfill areas on campus. Since then the University has been working with DEP and the contractors to develop modified safety measures and additional monitoring for asbestos. In February DEP approved a phased approach and work restarted in the Calf Pasture area with intensive air quality monitoring both in the work zone and at the perimeter. Workers in this phase will use additional protective equipment (coveralls and respirators) while the air quality data is collected and analyzed. The University will work with DEP and the contractor to determine what measures will be followed for subsequent phases. Additional Information On the right hand column of this page under “See Also” there are copies of the all reports submitted to DEP and memos updating the University community. There is also a “Soil Management Q&A” and “Safe Soil Management-Background” For more information on soil management, please contact OEHS at 617.287.5445 or umbehs@umb.edu . Soil Management Q&A What does soil management entail? UMass Boston is situated on a former municipal landfill and must follow rules set forth by regulations developed and monitored by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (DEP). UMass Boston’s Excavated Materials Management plan is a comprehensive plan for handling soil safely. Whenever soil below the landfill cap is disturbed, a series of protocols are followed. How are the environmental impacts of the excavation monitored? Each construction project has a Licensed Site Professional (LSP) who “collects data on conditions at the site, interprets the data, assesses the risks posed by the site to health, safety, public welfare, and the environment and recommends and oversees necessary cleanup activities. The UMass Boston Office of Environmental Health and Safety (OEHS) also provides oversight. Why are there so many soil piles? During excavation the soil is screened and separated into different piles by the LSP based on their observed characteristics to determine whether those excavated materials can remain on site or should be removed from campus. Most of the soil will stay on the campus for reuse; some soil will be trucked to appropriate disposal sites. Is there asbestos in the piles? Low levels of asbestos may be in the landfill. Asbestos was used for decades in many different products such as insulation. Asbestos is an health hazard when airborne. Therefore, dust control is the most important safety and health measure. Once the material is buried and capped any risk is eliminated. Based on recent air quality sampling and daily dust monitoring, there is no indication that there has been any unusual release or exposure. Why are the dirt piles green? To control dust, some contractors use hydro seed on the soil piles to cover the soil to provide an environment of plant growth, which helps minimize dust. How is the soil buried? When trenches are filled and areas are considered complete, the last step is for a two-foot clean cap of soil to be put on the top. This step occurs each time there is an excavation on campus. How is the university protecting your health? Safeguarding the health and welfare of our UMass Boston community members during construction is the single most important goal. Every step taken above reflects that commitment. Safe Soil Management Background UMass Boston is situated on a former municipal landfill and therefore is required to follow certain protocols whenever we dig below the landfill cap, whether it’s to install a light pole, construct a new building, or install the new, massive utility corridor. The protocols apply to all who may work on Columbia Point Peninsula property, including UMass Boston, the JFK Presidential Library & Museum, the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the Study of the United States Senate, Massachusetts Archives, and their various project teams. All must follow rules set forth by regulations promulgated and monitored by Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (DEP). Special Project Designation (SPD) Because of the size and extent of soil disruption that UMass Boston knew would occur when executing the various Master Plan projects, UMass Boston Environmental Health and Safety and Facilities staff met with DEP staff during development of the Master Plan to develop a procedure that UMass Boston, Department of Capital Asset Management and Maintenance (DCAMM), UMass Building Authority (UMBA), and the various project teams working on behalf of UMass Boston would follow to ensure adherence to all regulations and to follow best practices. The procedure that was issued is entitled the “Special Project Designation.” &nbsp; These projects are being executed under the Massachusetts Contingency Plan (MCP) and the Solid Waste Closure regulations, with MCP taking the lead in terms of the protocols and procedures to be followed. Excavated Materials Management Plan UMass Boston has an Excavated Materials Management Plan (a comprehensive plan for handling the soil safely so as to keep the community safe while soil is disrupted.) Any time we disturb soil below the landfill cap, this activity is subject to these protocols. Each project designer is issued a copy of this plan and incorporates this plan into their project specifications on which the contractors bid. The designers of the various projects also have a Licensed Site Professional (LSP) on each project that “collects data on conditions at the site, interprets this data, assesses the risks posed by the site to health, safety, public welfare, and the environment, and recommends and oversees necessary cleanup activities” (from DEP website). During excavation, soils are screened and separated into different piles by the LSP based on their observed characteristics to determine whether those excavated materials can remain on site or should be removed from campus. Contractors for the various projects utilize a variety of controls outlined in the specifications to minimize dust and to contain any potentially hazardous materials. Contractors may also utilize additional controls in accordance with their firms’ internal safety plans. When holes are filled and areas are considered complete, the last step is for a two-foot clean cap of soil to be put on the top. This step occurs each time there is an excavation on campus. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms