Services for Alumni - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Software & Systems Services for Alumni Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems WISER Email Password CloudPC Docusign Electronic Signature Software for Faculty & Staff Student IT Discounts Wifi Aira Accessibility Technology Telecom Mathematica Admin Systems Services for Alumni Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Services for Alumni All students keep their UMass Boston email account for two years after graduation, at which point it will be deleted. If you graduated and wish to keep receiving email sent to your UMass Boston email address, you may request an alumni forward, which allows you to keep your email address after your account is deleted. Only your address will remain—no email, contacts, etc.—and you will not be able to log in to Blackboardim, WISER, OneDrive, Office apps online, or other services. If you need a transcript, you can obtain one without logging in to WISER at the Registrar's Office web site . Setting up this forwarding address means all information in your email account—all email, contacts, attachments, OneDrive files, etc.—will be permanently deleted . Only the address will remain. Once it is set up, new email messages (and only new incoming messages) sent to your address will be forwarded to the address you specify. Existing messages will not be forwarded and will be deleted. Processing this request may take a few days, so make sure you do not miss anything by setting up a forward on your account before beginning . If you have data you want to keep, be sure to follow our instructions for migrating your UMass Boston email, etc., to another provider before proceeding. Do not request an alumni forward until you are certain you have saved, printed, forwarded, or otherwise backed up anything from your UMass Boston email account you want to keep! To request an alumni forward, send an email (from your UMass Boston email address, if possible) to ITServiceDesk@umb.edu with the following information: Your UMass Boston email address Your UMS (student ID) number if possible Your date of graduation (approximate) The email address you want your mail forwarded to (double check this address for typos!) It's best if you set a forward on your account yourself first and test it, then request that we use that address. Your agreement and understanding that setting up the forward will permanently erase all data stored with your email account and that you will lose the ability to log in to the UMass Boston email system, WISER, Blackboard, and all other UMass Boston systems. If you have any questions, feel free to call us at (617) 287-5220 for more information. Transcripts You do not need your UMass Boston account to request a transcript. If you need a transcript and no longer have access to WISER, you can you can obtain one electronically via the Registrar's Office web site . You cannot request a transcript by email or over the phone. Migrate your email messages from UMass Boston to another provider The process for migrating your email messages to another account is rather simple but may be time consuming. Any capable email program (Apple Mail, Outlook, etc.) should work. 1. Create a folder (or folders) on your personal account to receive your UMass Boston mail messages. (You could simply drop them all into the Inbox, but it would be hard to separate them later if something goes wrong.) 2. In your UMass Boston inbox, select all the messages and drag them to the folder you want in your personal account. (You should do this somewhere you have a fast, stable internet connection , as it could take a long time, depending on how much mail you have.) Repeat with any other folders you have in your UMass Boston account. 3. If you have documents in your UMass Boston OneDrive, either download them (all at once or in batches), or set up OneDrive Sync and let them all sync to a folder on your computer. You can upload these to your Google Drive, personal OneDrive (outlook.com), etc., later. Get Started with OneDrive Office 365: Sync with OneDrive 4. To download a copy of your contacts, click the People icon on the lower left, then, on the Contacts page, click Manage in the upper right hand corner. See Export contacts from Outlook.com to a CSV file for details. 5. Once all documents and contacts are downloaded and all messages are copied, check for anything else you might want, like calendar items. These are not as easy to archive (download) and require the Microsoft Outlook program to do so. (If you do not have a computer that can run Outlook, you could use CloudPC to do this step, but your access to CloudPC will go away as soon as your account is disabled, so don't use it to store any data! Anything you save in CloudPC is in your OneDrive, so be certain to download it to your computer immediately.) There are some Microsoft solutions that might work for you: Import email, contacts, and calendar from an Outlook .pst file - Microsoft Support Copy specific category of appointments from Office 365 to Google Calendar Daily copy all Outlook contacts to Google Contacts Alternatively, you could just copy and paste the contact and calendar information into email messages to yourself that you can later turn back into contacts or calendar items in Gmail, Outlook.com, iCloud, etc. UMass Boston settings: Server name: outlook.office365.com Port: 993 Encryption method: TLS Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms