- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Q&A: Healey Archivists Document UMass Boston’s COV Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Q&A: Healey Archivists Document UMass Boston’s COVID-19 Experience 04/17/2020 |
    Elis Mullins The Healey Library's University Archives and Special Collections (UASC) staff launched a new project: They’re documenting the UMass Boston community’s response to the COVID-19 crisis. By compiling personal materials online, they hope to chronicle the personal and collective experience of the epidemic for present and future Beacons. John Mazzarella, Manager of Training, Communications & Marketing in IT Ed Tech & Learning Commons, submitted this photo for the project: "My home office, aka my daughter's nursery room! I had to kick my wife's sewing machine setup out for the duration." Image By: John Mazzarella “ We know that people have stories to tell, and we are here to collect, preserve, and share those stories with the world. ” Now Reference Archivist Jessica Holden shares how the project got started and how it works, who should submit and how, and what the UASC hopes the future of this project will be. What’s the story of how this project came to be? As soon as we started working remotely, the UASC staff started talking about the pressing need to provide a collection portal for our university community during COVID-19. Other university archives have run similar collecting projects immediately following disasters and many other university archives are also running collecting projects on COVID-19 . We are interested in collecting materials from all members of our campus community: students, faculty, staff, alumni, administrators, and anyone else connected to the university with a story to tell. Who is involved in the project and what roles are people taking on? Interim University Archivist and Curator of Special Collections Andrew Elder and I put together the main elements of the project: the project description and the collection forms in Google Forms. I promoted the project on social media and contacted faculty directly about the project. Andrew promoted the project via regional listservs and shared the project with the Healey Library and alumni office . Who should submit materials and what should they submit? We are interested in collecting materials from all members of our campus community: students, faculty, staff, alumni, administrators, and anyone else connected to the university with a story to tell. Submissions could include personal stories, photographs, audio or video recordings, reflective essays, curricular materials created for a class you are now teaching online, works of art, poems, short stories, or blog or social media posts, but those are only suggestions. We want to know: How has life changed for you as a student, as a staff member, or as a member of the faculty? How are you staying connected to the people in your life and to others at UMass Boston during this period of social/physical distancing? What do you want people in the years to come to understand or know about this time period? Where are you collecting submissions and how long will you continue to collect? I wrote a blog post called " Documenting the UMass Boston Community’s Response to COVID-19 " that has a link to the collection forms. We’ll be accepting submissions indefinitely. As long as people submit materials, we will continue to collect them. What will you do with the materials you collect? The materials will become part of the Healey Library’s permanent digital collections, and if contributors give us permission, they will be shared through our digital collections repository here . We will likely feature items on social media and via our blog . An exhibit is definitely on the table, but we haven’t discussed specifics yet. What impact do you hope this project has on the UMass Boston community? We are hoping for two outcomes with this project: that the project can serve as an outlet for people during social distancing and while we’re experiencing a time of great stress and uncertainty, and that the project helps to document our campus’s collective and individual experiences during COVID-19. We know that people have stories to tell, and we are here to collect, preserve, and share those stories with the world. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms