Project Roles Responsibilities - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology About Information Technology Project Management Office Methodology Project Roles Responsibilities Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Mission, Vision & Values Policies IT Outcomes Reports Student Jobs Project Management Office Definition Of A Project Executive Summary Goals Methodology Project Roles Responsibilities Project Closing Phase Project Execution Control Phase Project Initiation Phase Project Lifecycle Overview Project Planning Phase Workflow Project Roles & Responsibilities A successful project requires the project team to participate (at some level) in the planning process, buy-in to the project plan, and be responsible for completion of assignments. It is important to have a defined formal structure for the project and for the project team. This provides each individual with a clear understanding of the authority given and responsibility necessary for the successful accomplishment of project activities.  This section describes the typical roles and responsibilities for projects.  Roles may be assigned to one or more individuals.  Conversely, individuals may have one or more roles on a project. Project Sponsor - The Project Sponsor is the executive (AVC or above) with a demonstrable interest in the outcome of the project and who is ultimately responsible for securing spending authority and resources for the project.  The Project Sponsor will: Oversee high-level project progress Provide input to and approval of the project charter Provide and approve project budget and resources. Approve any project change requests Champions the project to provide exposure and buy-in from senior management. Approve the project completion. Project Manager - The Project Manager is the person assigned by Information Technology Division to ensure that the project team achieves the project objectives and completes the project.  The Project Manager develops the project charter and plan with the team and manages the team’s performance of project related tasks.  The Project Manager also secures acceptance and approval of deliverables from the project sponsor and stakeholders.  The Project Manager will: Develop, monitor, and review project management deliverables and activities within the project plan Communicate to and receive feedback from the project team Escalate and resolve issues as needed Initiate project meetings in consultation with project team and sponsor Develop project and implementation plans Prepare deliverables for approval by stakeholders Schedule and track resource Communicate project status to Project Sponsors and stakeholders Project Owner - The project owner is typically the head of the business unit that proposed the project or is the recipient of the project output or product.  The project owner bears the business responsibility for successful project implementation.  The Project Owner will: Assist the project manager in providing leadership for and managing the team’s performance of project activities Acts as a “champion” for the project, in partnership with the project sponsor. Assist the project manager in providing leadership towards the completion of project tasks. Actively encourage buy in from other project stakeholders PMO Director - The Project Management Office (PMO) Director supports the Information Technology Division's commitment to a more structured project planning process. The Director helps the IT Division select the right projects and supports their successful implementation through planning, project work, and oversight.  The PMO Director ensures that all Information Technology projects are managed in accordance with approved BSU Project Management Methodology. The Project Management Office Director is available for: General Project Management questions and advice Facilitation of project planning, project kickoff, reviews, and lessons learned sessions Project Management training, mentoring, and consulting Service Now technical support (online Project Portfolio Management (PPM) platform) Project Portfolio oversight, reporting, and escalation Functional Director – The Functional Director is responsible for providing resources (both people and equipment) as needed according to the project plan.  They may also function as a Subject Matter Expert and provide oversight and guidance for the project. Service Owner - The Service Owner is accountable for a specific service (Infrastructure, Application or Professional Service) within the organization regardless of where the technology components or professional capabilities reside. Subject Matter Expert (SME) - The Subject Matter Expert is that individual who has a high level of expertise in performing a specialized job, task, or skill within the organization.  Project Managers need to work with SMEs in the research and execution phases of a project and should involve them in the technical validation of project charters and plans. Project Team -  The Project Team has responsibility for conducting project activities. Project Team members, as necessary, assist the Project Manager in planning the development effort and help construct commitments to complete the project within established schedule and budget constraints. The Project Team may include the subject matter experts responsible for implementing the project solution. Customers and/or Stakeholders should interact with the Project Team to ensure that requirements are properly understood and implemented.  The Project Team may include both UMass Boston staff members and external Consultants brought on for the project engagement. Stakeholders - Stakeholders are persons or organizations that are actively involved in the project, or whose interests may be positively or negatively impacted by the project, or who might exert influence over the project. Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms