Development - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Governance & Sustainability Research Development Menu menu Menu About Research Development Environment Sustainability Development Governance Reforming and Stadardization of Global Governance Systems Focuing on UN development system in different parts of the developing world, the Center for Governance and Sustainability convenes stakeholders in development governance forums. Other initiatives concern transformations in public and private governance that affect industrial development. Collaborating Institutions The Center for Governance and Sustainability seeks to develop a wide network of collaborators to advance policy-relevant governance and sustainability research activities. Reforming the UN Development System More than 80 percent of the UN system’s 179,000 civilian staff and all of the 100,000 UN peacekeepers work in the more than 165 developing countries where the UN has country offices. Moreover, at least two-thirds of the system’s headquarters staff also work on development. However, the operation of the system is spread across more than 50 different agencies, each with a separate board of member states and a separate upper administration. In the field, the chief UN officer usually only has administrative authority over the entire UN staff during periods of emergency. In 2000, Secretary General Kofi Annan began a process of administrative reform designed to reduce administrative duplication and rationalize the system, a process that was put on hold, largely due to the international controversy over the US and British role in Iraq. In the last two years, a small group of retired high-level international civil servants, scholars of the United Nations, and executives of the management-consulting firms that Annan’s team relied upon have worked to restart the process. Craig Murphy has been engaged in this process serving as a facilitator of the high-level conference on reforming the United Nations development system held at the British Foreign Office’s rural retreat, Wilton Park in 2010.The Wilton Park conference will be followed by another event linking officials from the major donor countries with those from important new actors in the field (especially Brazil, China, and India), a second will bring together leading journalists and commentators from throughout the world, and the group will initiate a series of regional civil society forums on reform of the UN development system in different parts of the developing world, forums similar to those initiated by Center for Governance and Sustainability Co-Director Maria Ivanova, to discuss global environmental governance. Global Governance, from Organizations to Networks, or Not Craig Murphy is part of the "Networks in Times of Transition" project organized by the University of Heidelberg's Center of Excellence on Asia and Europe in a Global Context that is producing a policy oriented trans-cultural history of international organizations. Murphy's piece of the initiative concerns transformations in public and private governance that affect industrial development. In the second half of the 19th century, men and women who wanted both to promote and control the expansionist tendency of industrial capitalism planted the first seeds of what we now call “global governance,” both public and private. Advocacy organizations convinced governments to hold conferences that led to international treaties served by an ever-expanding universe of intergovernmental organizations. Similarly, professional associations of scientists and engineers invented the processes of “voluntary consensus standard setting” used to create many essential international industrial standards and, more recently, to establish standards for quality and for social and environmental integrity – standards monitored and verified by another constellation of new organizations. Both parts of the original system of international governance were built on Western models. Today, when many of the most vital centers of industrial growth are in East and South Asia, will this “Western” focus on rigid standards and formal organizations be supplemented or replaced by an “Eastern” system of less-formal, more flexible networks? Some evidence from recent practice suggests that the outcome may be more complex. Since the late 1980s, first Japanese and then Chinese governments and firms have increasingly worked to create “international” industrial standards “in an Asian mode” and many Asian firms and governments (regional as well as national) have encouraged the formation of new, strong social and environmental standards; consider the 2010 textile sustainable development summit. At the same time, Western advocates of “rough consensus and running code” have developed a fundamentally network-centered vision of the next generation of global governance, the world “beyond bureaucracy,” in the words of Oracle standards guru, Trond Arne Undheim. What may be emerging is certainly not convergence on a single model. The shifting views of governance (“East” and “West”) may have more to do with the industrial specializations (and related sources of power) in different regions of the world. Global Redesign Initiative A comprehensive proposal for redesigning global governance since the formulation of the United Nations during World War II. The Historical Origins of International Standardization Dr. Craig Murphy and JoAnne Yates, Deputy Dean and Sloan Distinguished Professor of Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management, lead a study that seeks to trace the historical origins of international standardization. They analyze the beginning of standardization from the social movement of engineers that originated this form of standard setting in the late nineteenth century. The study ends with the current difficulty of applying the processes to the rapidly changing information technology field and the ways in which the process has become a way to set global social, labor, and environmental standards in the absence of intergovernmental agreement. This endeavor builds upon Murphy and Yates' previous work regarding the history of major private regulatory practices and voluntary consensus standard setting. Center for Governance and Sustainability Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Room 126 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.7489 The center is affiliated with the John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms