Mission, Vision & Values - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology About Information Technology Mission, Vision & Values Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Mission, Vision & Values Policies IT Outcomes Reports Student Jobs Project Management Office Mission, Vision, and Values In 2019 we embarked on a 10-step visioning process with each member of IT contributing to the dialogue. The goal: articulate our mission, vision, and values. And then, fulfill our mission, achieve our vision, and live our values. Mission Information Technology Services (ITS) provides a diverse population of students, faculty, and staff with reliable and secure technology, services, and solutions to continuously improve scholarship; teaching and learning; research; and business processes to enhance student success and support the mission of the university. Vision To be a trusted partner in providing secure, transformative and innovative Information Technology services to advance teaching, learning, research and administrative practices, through dynamic and adaptive customer service. Caring We interact with students, faculty, and staff with respect, empathy, and professionalism. Innovation We value creativity and critical thinking, focusing on developing efficient, effective technology services and solutions. Dedication We are committed to the mission of the university and the people we serve, and we work hard to ensure successful outcomes. Inclusion We embrace our differences to provide the best service to a diverse UMass Boston community. Excellence We strive to provide high-quality service and support to our community of students, faculty, and staff. Collaboration We work together to implement new services and technologies to solve problems and improve the quality of life for all. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms