Spend Your Summer At Umass Boston - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Housing & Dining On Campus Spend Your Summer At Umass Boston Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining On Campus About Us Current Residents Floor Plans Room Rates Future Residents Housing FAQs Housing Payment Information Resident Assistant Resident Health Requirements Roommate Resources Spend Your Summer At Umass Boston Summer Conference Housing Meal Plans Off Campus Policies & Forms Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Spend Your Summer at UMass Boston Summer 2025 housing dates and rates will be posted in late November 2024/early December 2024. The below rates are for Summer 2024, there is typically a 3%-6% increase. Whether you are taking classes, interning at one of the many locations in the city, or looking for housing for a conference group, the Residence Halls at UMass Boston is a great location for the summer. Why should you stay with us this summer? Easy access to the city Beautiful water views Close to UMass Boston summer classes Utilities included in cost (including WiFi!) Easy access to Boston HarborWalk and local beaches Great way to stay involved on campus year-round or get to know the UMass Boston community Convenient housing for city internships The Summer 2025 class registration dates TBD! For more information, please see the Summer Term page. Available room types Shared room with private bathroom Shared room with community bathroom Graphic renderings of our shared rooms. Dorm triple with bath floorplan. Dorm quad with bath floorplan Dorm double with bath Dorm double unit Dorm triple unit (video link) UMASS BOSTON STUDENT SUMMER 2024 HOUSING RATES (PER RESIDENT) . Shared w/in-room Bathroom Shared w/Community Bathroom Summer Session I $1,550 $1,340 Summer Session II $1,450 $1,240 Full Summer $3,000 $2,580 Summer Session I and II rates apply to students enrolled in summer classes at UMass Boston. NON-UMASS BOSTON STUDENT SUMMER 2024 HOUSING RATES (PER RESIDENT) . Shared with Private Bathroom Shared with Community Bathroom Summer Session I $1,680 $1,460 Summer Session II $1,570 $1,355 Full Summer $3,140 $2,700 Summer Session I and II rates apply to students enrolled in summer classes at UMass Boston. For questions regarding student summer housing, please email the Summer Housing account . Summer Housing FAQs How do I contact the Housing Office and where is the office located? The Housing office is located on the first floor of the East building (the larger of the two residence halls). Office hours are typically 9:00am-5:00pm, Monday through Friday, except holidays. For questions about summer accommodations, please email SummerHousing@umb.edu. Are we able to bring cooking appliances? We do permit microwaves, mini-fridges, air fryers, rice cookers, Keurig coffee makers and electronic kettles. Please note, hot plates, grills and any items with exposed heating elements are not permitted. Is alcohol permitted on campus? UMass Boston is a dry campus, which means that alcohol is not permitted on campus or in the residence halls, regardless of your age. We are also a smoke free campus. Violation of the alcohol policy may result in immediate removal from the building and cancellation of your housing agreement. This would be viewed as default of the agreement and full balance would be due. How are my room and the common areas (lounges, kitchenette area) cleaned? Residents are responsible for keeping their room clean. We suggest that residents have their own cleaning products (broom, Clorox wipes, paper towels, etc.). While we do have cleaners for common lounges and the kitchenette area, all residents are expected to throw away their own trash and clean up any spilled food that may happen while using the spaces. Are toiletries/toilet paper provided? You should plan to bring your own toiletries. For residents who will be staying in rooms with in-room bathrooms, we will provide the initial roll of toilet paper when you arrive. Our community bathrooms will have toilet paper supplied and will be cleaned by our cleaners. How big is the fridge in the kitchenette? The fridge is a standard kitchen size. All summer residents are able to use this during their stay, so residents should be mindful of this and not overfill the fridge or freezer. All items should also be labeled with name and date. The fridge will be periodically cleaned out to ensure that there is space for all residents to use. How would I access the building/my room? Each summer resident receives a room fob and summer ID at check in. The ID will grant access to the building and through the turnstiles. The fob will grant access to the assigned room. Each ID is assigned to a specific person. IDs that are reported as lost will be deactivated and there is a $25 replacement fee. Lost fobs also have a $25 replacement fee. What happens if I am locked out of my room? If you are locked out when the office is opened, please report to the office for assistance getting back into your room. If the lock out takes place when the office is closed, please go to the security desk in the building and ask that the SCA on-call is contacted. They will be able to assist you with gaining entry to your room. Residents who are locked out more than 2 times during their say will have a lock out fee of $10 for each additional lock out. Is there laundry in the building? Yes, there is a laundry room in the building. You can use a credit or debit card to pay for laundry or quarters. Residents must provide their own detergent. How do I connect to the WiFi? Summer residents should use the UMBResHall-Guest WiFi. You will be directed to a landing page in your browser and should click on Guest (the second blue button) to connect. You may need to do this every 24 hours as it does reset for security purposes. Contact information for summer housing Summer Housing Office of Housing and Residential Life Residence Hall East, 1st Floor 240 Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA 02125 617.287.6011 summerhousing@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms