This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > UGRD > edc u > edc u 275 UTeach: Classroom Interactions Course #: EDC U 275 Description: This course continues the process of preparing students to teach mathematics, science, and engineering by providing opportunities to apply theories developed in Knowing and Learning in instructional settings. Students design and implement instructional activities informed by their own understanding of what it means to know and learn mathematics and science and then evaluate the outcomes of those activities on the basis of student artifacts (i.e., what students say, do, or create). An important focus of the course is on building students' awareness and understanding of equity issues and their effects on student learning. Students are provided frameworks for thinking about equity issues in the classroom and larger school settings, and they learn strategies for teaching students with learning differences and diverse backgrounds equitably. Additionally, the course introduces ways curriculum and technology are used in classroom settings to build relationships among teachers and students and provide access to learning opportunities for all.Students engage deeply with science and mathematics content, reflecting on their own and others' learning and problem solving, as well as the underlying structures of these disciplines and their relation to other fields of inquiry. In essence, Classroom Interaction is centered on a close examination of the interplay between teachers, students, content, and the world beyond schools, and how such interactions enable students to develop deep conceptual understanding. Students learn how content and pedagogy combine to make effective teaching. Pre Requisites: Offered in: TBA Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000