COVID-19 University Policy - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Coronavirus COVID-19 University Policy Menu menu Menu COVID-19 University Policy Daily Self Check List Faqs Updates COVID-19 Policies The following are UMass Boston's official COVID-19 policies. Vaccination Policy The University strongly recommends the vaccine for all students, staff, faculty, and visitors. Boosters continue to be strongly recommended, when individuals are eligible. Face Covering Policy UMass Boston currently has a mask optional policy in all spaces on campus, except for in University Health Services (UHS). Within UHS, patients who have respiratory symptoms or fever must wear a face mask. Please note the following: Masks are welcomed and encouraged on campus. Anyone completing isolation or quarantine should continue to wear a high quality mask following the latest guidance from the CDC . Please continue to be vigilant in closely monitoring your own health and symptoms. If you feel symptoms, please stay home and get tested. We will continue to make antigen tests and masks available at University Health Services (Quinn, second floor). Isolation and Quarantine Please review and follow the latest guidance from the CDC . Hygiene and Daily Health Screening We continue to clean high touch surfaces and common areas and encourage use of hand washing and hand sanitizer and other routine hygiene practices that promote good health. In addition, all students and employees are encouraged to monitor their own health daily. Students, staff, and faculty are asked to review the daily check list prior to coming to campus each day. Event and Visitor Guidance In general, all campus safety protocols apply to visitors and events. This means that we expect each visitor to adhere to University requirements for masking and/or vaccination. Currently, masks are welcomed on campus, but not required. Vaccinations and boosters (if eligible) are strongly encouraged, but not required. We also recommend that visitors complete a daily symptom self-check. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms