Student Testimonials - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Student Leadership & Community Engagement Student Testimonials Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities Government Student Leadership & Community Engagement About Us Anti Racism Resources Beacon Awards Beacon Voyages For Service Black Community Engagement Series Civic Action Fellowship Community Faculty Firstyear Leadership Institute Grow Jumpstart Leadership Foundations Community Engagement Initiatives Student Testimonials StrongWomen Media Student Arts & Events Council Student Activities Welcome Week The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Testimonials Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement Program testimonials In reference to our GROW Peer Facilitators: "You shared so much with the students about meaningful engagement, social justice, and community building that is essential to student learning...The students were energized by your presentations, and you were all a powerful source of inspiration for them." - Associate Professor Amy Den Ouden "BVS is the perfect medium to expand our knowledge on a specific social justice issue. My week in Pennsylvania gave me a first hand experience of one community’s public health concerns and witness the power of service in transforming thousands of lives across the world. BVS was transformative for me because it allowed me to stop and analyze existing health services that are taken for granted. It also taught me to imagine better the transformational power of service." --Niti P., 2017 - 2018 Beacon Voyages for Service participant "For the past four years, the University of Massachusetts Boston has brought some of the most hardworking, thoughtful, kind, passionate, and service driven volunteers to YSOP through their alternative break program. The great thing about UMass Boston volunteers is that they reliably show up, work diligently, ask good questions, step outside their comfort zones, and give all that they can to us and to our partners. Service learning programs are about more than service provided; they are about putting that service in the context of larger issues such as homelessness and food insecurity. Each reflection activity YSOP held with UMass Boston students yielded in depth discussion of critical connections between systemic issues of poverty and homelessness and the work students performed each day. It has always been clear that UMass Boston students come to our programs equipped with knowledge and have a desire to learn more." -- Cassie K., Program Coordinator, YSOP; Danielle S., Program Director, YSOP "This program’s commitment to being student-led has built incredible confidence and leadership skills in myself and my peers. I have learned to trust myself and my fellow BVS-ers, and I have watched us create together an incredible force for good, one which I believe can and should be shared." --Madison H., 2017-2018 Beacon Voyages for Service Education Coordinator “FLI [First-Year Leadership Institute] is one of the many gateways to student success in leadership and community involvement at UMass Boston. I would encourage all students to apply to this program. It truly transforms a student's UMB experience and makes them a better professional, but more so, a better individual and a leader for their community.” --Sara Tariq, Student Trustee 2018 - 2019 “FLI [First-Year Leadership Institute] gave me confidence in myself as a leader at a new university. It also gave us countless role models (all of the mentors and leaders of the program) that demonstrated that we, as students, could make a real difference at the university.” --Samantha Zeno, USG Vice President 2018 - 2019 Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement Campus Center, 2nd Floor, Suite 2300 617.287.6077 oslce@umb.edu 617.287.7925 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms