Accessible Pdfs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Accessibility Accessible Pdfs Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Accessible Documents Accessible Multimedia Accessible Pdfs Voluntary Product Accessibility Template Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Accessible PDFs Providing course materials as PDFs (Portable Document Format) is a common practice and a recommended one due to the ease of access across browsers and platforms this format provides. However, when converting an original file to PDF from a program such as Word or PowerPoint, or scanning a resource to a PDF, it’s important to take steps to ensure accessibility of the document. Scanning a PDF in an Accessible Way Using scanners equipped with OCR (Optical Character Recognition) technology, you can scan documents in a way that is searchable and accessible. Without OCR these scans would be inaccessible photocopies of the resource. Use the list of scanner locations on campus to find a scanner near you. The following video offers detailed instructions on how to use the OCR scanners. Testing a PDF for Accessibility The accessibility of PDFs are in part due to a hidden, structural “tagging” system. A way to test for this is to simply try highlighting the content in the PDF. An accessible PDF will allow you to do so, line by line. An inaccessible one will not. PDFs and Microsoft Office Conversion to PDF in the most recent versions of Microsoft Office is easy. If a document is created using the General Practices on the Accessible Documents page , simply saving the file as a PDF will ensure accessibility with no additional steps. All students, staff and faculty can access the newest Microsoft Office software at the UMass Boston Microsoft Office webpage . For older versions of this software, steps to convert to PDFs can be found on the NCDAE Cheat Sheets webpage . Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms