Lorna.Rivera - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Lorna.Rivera Lorna Rivera Department: Leadership in Education Title: Director, Gaston Institute Location: Healey Library Floor 10 Phone: 617.287.7388 Send Email Website Biography I am the Director of the Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development & Public Policy, and Professor of Higher Education in the Leadership in Education Department at the University of Massachusetts-Boston. I earned a Ph.D. in Sociology from Northeastern University. My research focuses on Latino Studies, the social determinants of health, adult literacy and the education of Latinx students. Area of Expertise Latina/o studies, Social Determinants of Health, Adult Literacy education, Education of Latina/o students Degrees Ph.D. Sociology, Northeastern University M.A. Sociology (concentration in Gender Studies), Northeastern University B.S.  Elementary Education, DePaul University State of Illinois Teaching License K-9, Social Studies & Language Arts Professional Publications & Contributions SELECTED PUBLICATIONS Books Rivera, L. and Colon, M. Eds. (In press, 2025) Critical Perspectives on Latino Education in Massachusetts . University of Massachusetts Press. Rivera, L. (2008). Laboring to Learn: Women’s Literacy and Poverty in the Post-Welfare Era . University of Illinois Press. Winner of 2009 Cyril O. Houle Award for Outstanding Literature. Journal Articles Hohn, M. and Rivera, L. (2019). “Results of a Two-Year Study: The Impact and Outcomes of Integrating Health Literacy Education into Boston’s Adult Basic Education Programs.” Journal of Health Literacy Research and Practice. 3(3 Suppl) S25-S32. Saltmarsh, J. Warren, M. Krueger-Henney, P. Rivera, L., Fleming, R. Haig-Friedman, D. and M. Uriarte. (2015). “Creating an Academic Culture that Supports Community-Engaged Scholarship.” Diversity and Democracy . V18 (1). Pp. 12-15. Fletcher,K., H.G. Prigerson, E. Paulk, J. Temel, E. Finlay, L. Marr, R. McCorkle, L. Rivera, F.Munoz, P. Maciejewski. (2013). “Gender Differences in the Evolution of Illness Understanding Among Patients with Advanced Cancer.” Journal of Supportive Oncology . v11(3):126-32. Wright, A., H. Stieglitz, Y. Kupersztoch, M. Paulk, Y. Kim, I. Katz, F. Munoz, R. Jimenez, J. Mutchler, L. Rivera, A. Back, H. G. Prigerson. (2013). “United States Acculturation and Cancer Patients’ End-of-Life Care.” PLoS ONE. v 8(3):e58663. Jimenez R., Zhang, B., Joffe, S., Nilsson, M., Rivera, L., Mutchler, J., Lathan, C., Paulk, E., Prigerson, H.. (2013). “Clinical Trial Participation among Ethnic/Racial Minority and Majority Patients with Advanced Cancer: What Factors Most Influence Enrollment?” Journal of Palliative Medicine . v 16 (3): 1-8. Balboni, T. A., Maciejewski, P. K., Balboni, M. J., Enzinger, A. C., Paulk, M. E., Munoz, F., Rivera, L. (2013). “Racial/Ethnic Differences in End-of-Life (EoL) Treatment Preferences: The Role of Religious Beliefs About Care.” ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings . v31 (15): 6529. Rivera, L. and N. Lavan. (2012). “Family Literacy Practices and Parental Involvement of Latin American Immigrant Women.” Journal of Latinos and Education v11 (4). 24 pages. Research and Professional Reports Rivera, L., Granberry, P., Ortiz-Wythe, B., and Borges, M. (2024). "Abriendo Puertas: Exploring the Challenges to Homeownership and Housing Stability for Latinos in Massachusetts." Gastón Institute Publications. 312. Vega Martinez, J., Torres-Ardila, F., Rivera, L. and Sunday, M. (2023). "Transfer Pathways: Ensuring Transfer Student Success" (2023). Gastón Institute Publications. 311. Rivera, L., Agarwal, V., and Granberry, P. (2022). "Latinas in the Labor Market." Gastón Institute Publications. 291. Torres-Ardila, F., Rivera, L., Rojas-Pion, C., Bravo, D. and Chavez, H. (2021). "Sustainable Pathways for Successful Small Businesses in Chelsea, Massachusetts". Gaston Institute Publications. Torres-Ardila, F., Bravo, D., Chavez, H., Rivera, L., (2020). "Towards a Workforce Development Action Plan in the City of Chelsea: Community Voices". Gastón Institute Publications. Mutchler, J., Coyle, C., Velasco-Roldan, V., Woods, C., Rivera,L., Watanabe, P., Swan, Q. (2020). “Age Strong for All: Examining Aging Equity in the City of Boston”. Gerontology Institute Publications. Rivera, L., Granberry, P., Estrada-Martínez, L., Uriarte, M., Siqueira, E.,Linde-Arias, A., and Bacigalupe, G. (2020). "COVID-19 and Latinos in Massachusetts" (2020). Gastón Institute Publications. Rivera, L. (2019). “Latinos in Greater Boston: Migration, New Communities and the Challenge of Displacement.” In Changing Faces of Greater Boston. Schuster, et. al. pp 51-60. Boston Foundation. Granberry, P., Mattos, T., and Rivera, L. (2018). “Communities in Peril: The Dispersion of Temporary Protected Status Populations throughout Massachusetts. Gastón Institute Publications. CURRENT PROJECTS Co-Principal Investigator. University Assisted Community Schools Partnership with Ruth Batson Academy, Boston Public Schools and College of Education & Human Development. Principal Investigator. Boston Community Health Workers for COVID Response and Resilient Communities (CCR) . Funded by Centers for Disease Control. Boston Public Health Commission. Award No. 1 NU58DP007013-01-00. Principal Investigator. Advancing Health Literacy to Enhance Equitable Community Responses to COVID-19. Funded by Office of Minority Health. Boston Public Health Commission. Award No: 1 CPIMP211244-01-00. Co-Principal Investigator. Community-Driven Assessment of Environmental Health Risks in Vieques, Puerto Rico. Funded by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), United States. G19A112846250. Principal Investigator. Talented and Gifted Latino Program and Proyecto Alerta 5 th Quarter Summer Learning Academy. Funded by Boston Public Schools, Boston After School & Beyond. Additional Information I am the author of the award-winning book, Laboring to Learn: Women’s Literacy & Poverty in the Post-Welfare Era (2008, University of Illinois Press). I am co-editor of the book, Critical Perspectives on Latino Education in Massachusetts (forthcoming, 2025, UMass Press). My research has been funded by the Society for the Study of Social Problems, the National Academy of Education, the Spencer Foundation, National Center for Family Literacy, and National Institutes on Health. Currently, I am working on the Latinx Student Success Initiative, a partnership with Bunker Hill Community College, to improve retention and graduation rates for Latinx college students. I manage the Talented & Gifted (TAG) Latino and Proyecto Alerta afterschool and summer learning academies that serve Latinx bilingual students in the Boston Public Schools. I currently serve on the Board of Trustees for the Anna B Stearns Charitable Foundation, Board of Trustees at Fenway High School, the Advisory Board for the Center to Support Immigrant Organizing and the Executive Board of Directors for the Inter-University Programs on Latino Research. My leadership has been recognized by several awards including: “50 Most Influential People of Color in Higher Education,” “Latinx Amplifier Award,” and the “Talented And Gifted Latino Champion Award.” In 2019, I was inducted as an Honorary Member of Alpha Lambda Delta National Honor Society. I have been a featured guest and writer in newspapers, radio, and television, most recently appearing on GBH's Basic Black and Under the Radar . My family is from Puerto Rico, and I am a proud alumnus of the Latino Leadership Opportunity Program. RECENT MEDIA CONTRIBUTIONS Quoted in Boston Globe. “How to champion Latinx college students in Massachusetts.” July 15, 2024. Quoted in Boston Globe. “Riots, arson, and executions: Immigrants have long faced a hostile reception in Mass.” May 8, 2024. Featured Guest. “Community leaders celebrate the diversity of Hispanic and Latino cultures across the Commonwealth.” Basic Black. GBH. November 10, 2023. Featured Guest. “Why many Latino Nonprofits struggle to make ends meet.” Under the Radar. GBH. 89.7FM. October 2, 2023. Quoted in Bay State Banner: “Hispanic Heritage Month Begins.” September 20, 2023. Quoted in Boston Globe: “Massachusetts to change how Asian, Black, and other populations are counted in ‘most expansive’ effort in country.” August 21, 2023. Quoted in Boston Globe: “The mighty Latino institute punching above its weight.”. June 24, 2023. Featured Interview, Latino Pioneers in Boston Magazine and Documentary by Blanca Bonilla. March 25, 2023. Quoted in: “Massachusetts Latinos worry about high cost of living, significant housing expenses.” GBH News. January 27, 2023. Featured Panelist. “The State of Race: The Latino Housing Crisis.” GBH World. January 26, 2023. YouTube Quoted in Boston Globe. “Holding on to Boston’s Latin Quarter”. October 11, 2022. Featured Interview. “Puerto Rican Festival of Massachusetts gears up for its 55th annual celebration.” Under the Radar, GBH, 89.7 FM. July 22, 2022. Featured Discussant. ¡Avancemos Ya! Advancing Latino Prosperity in Massachusetts. Boston Foundation, Live-streaming. May 12, 2022. Featured Interview. “Report highlights major economic disparities and root causes in Massachusetts Latino community.” Greater Boston, GBH News May 17, 2022. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms