From the Hub to the Hill  - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News From the Hub to the Hill Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Beacons Magazine Fall 2023 From the Hub to the Hill 12/08/2023 |
    Vanessa Chatterley Matt L. Barron ’86 establishes internship program for UMass Boston students Matt L. Barron (second from left) with then-Rep. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) (middle) and the other interns
stand in front of the Capitol, November 18,1983. Matt L. Barron ’86 didn’t always dream of working in politics. In fact, he initially wanted to be a farmer. He attributes this career aspiration to the “back-to-the-land movement,” a social phenomenon that was popularized in the 1970s for its emphasis on self-sufficiency—a concept that subscribed to the agrarian farmer lifestyle. But without the capital investment necessary to purchase land and equipment, Barron soon realized that becoming a farmer would take more than enrolling in a few college-level agriculture courses. So, he dropped out of school to work full time for the then-commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Food and Agriculture. There, he said, he could affect change behind the scenes. “I was part of organizing a statewide group called the Mass Food and Agriculture Coalition that was a cross-section of part of the rural farm groups, as well as urban gardeners and food co-ops,” Barron said. “I was working on food and agriculture policy, filing bills in the legislature. I was immersed in the politics of trying to get legislation passed.” After nearly three years in this role, Barron decided to give college a second chance. He enrolled in the political science program at UMass Boston—this time focusing on a vocation that ran adjacent to his first career choice. “I realized I could still be involved in these issues that I’m passionate about but more from affecting the policy, rather than actually being a producer or grower,” he said. During his second year, Barron landed a highly coveted internship with former U.S. Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, then serving his fifth term in the U.S. House of Representatives. It was a critical time for farmers, one that was identified as an agricultural recession and one of the worst economic periods since the Great Depression. Barron staffed the Congressional Populist Caucus cochaired by Harkin and Oregon Representative Jim Weaver, which pledged to fight for economic “fairness and equity.” Harkin was quoted in UPI as saying, “our thrust will be economic . . . building a structure so that once again initiative is rewarded, not wealth and power.” After completing his internship and earning a bachelor’s degree in political science from UMass Boston, Barron went on to enjoy a successful career in politics, working in electoral politics at the federal, state, and local levels. He served as a campaign manager and economic and agriculture development specialist for U.S. Representative John Olver of Massachusetts and was a charter member on President Barack Obama's Agriculture and Rural Policy Committee. Currently, Barron is a political consultant and rural strategist at his own firm, MLB Research Associates. In this role, he has advised on dozens of state legislative races in Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. He has also created numerous radio, print, and digital ads for independent expenditure efforts on rural issues across the nation and launched a series of state-branded/rural-focused super PACs. While reflecting on his storied career in the political arena, Barron still recalls his congressional internship with great fondness, calling it “the highlight of [his] time at UMass Boston.” “Working for the Congressional Populist Caucus and helping Tom Harkin get elected to the Senate was incredibly satisfying,” he said. “It is my hope that other UMass Boston political science majors can have as rewarding an internship experience as I did.” Now, through a transformative $100,000 gift to the university, Barron is bringing this hope to fruition. The Barron Congressional Internship program will provide students with the opportunity to work alongside some of the most influential politicians in the nation’s capital. Students selected for the program, called Barron Interns, will spend the duration of their internship learning about the inner workings of government and how policies are developed and implemented—all without being hindered by financial constraints. Interns will receive a stipend to help cover living expenses while completing their internship. The program is open to all political science students who wish to gain hands-on experience while learning about the country’s legislative system. Barron believes that students from all backgrounds can benefit from the experience of working in politics and hopes to attract a diverse group of applicants. It is through this program that he hopes to shape the next generation of political leaders and ensure that UMass Boston remains a hub of political activity for years to come. Rin Hurd ’24, a senior majoring in political science with a minor in public policy, is the program’s first-ever Barron Intern. In September, they embarked for Washington, DC, to complete an internship with Rhode Island Senator Sheldon Whitehouse. Hurd previously completed a congressional internship with Senator Elizabeth Warren in 2022 and said they’re grateful to Barron and the Political Science Department for the opportunity to continue their journey in the political landscape. “I honestly never thought a DC internship would be a reality for me unless I did it over the summer,” said Hurd, who plans to pursue their master’s in public policy. “Moving from Boston to DC, even temporarily, is expensive. I couldn’t imagine trying to figure out the cost of living. And yet, here I am!” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms