Faq - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students Faq Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Student Activities FAQs We hope that many of your questions can be answered through this Frequently Asked Questions page. If you still have questions about starting a student organization, conducting student organization business, or any other questions regarding Student Activities and Leadership, then please contact us at: Campus Center, 3rd Floor, Room 3400 617.287.7950 student.activities@umb.edu I want to connect with a Undergraduate or Graduate Student Organization or see what involvement opportunities are available. How do I do that? All student clubs and organizations are listed on the student organization portal. Just go to UMBeInvolved to get started. All UMass Boston students, faculty, and staff are eligible to sign up for an account and connect with over 100 undergraduate and graduate student groups! I am interested in starting a new Undergraduate or Graduate Student Organization. How do I do that? The Undergraduate Student Government and The Graduate Student Assembly accepts applications for new clubs online through UMBeInvolved during the first three weeks of each semester. To be considered, you must provide a club profile, a roster of at least 15 members, a constitution, and the mission of the organization cannot duplicate that of any currently recognized student organizations. I am a member of student organization and am looking to provide payment for a vendor who is coming to campus for an event. What is the process to pay a vendor? If a vendor has been on campus before and has previously been paid by the University of Massachusetts Boston, then you will need to provide an invoice for payment and file a purchase request on UMBeInvolved using your organization funds (must be authorized to make charges to an account). If a vendor has not been to campus or has not been paid by the University of Massachusetts Boston before, then they will need to complete both a MW-9 and Vendor Add/Update Form (both forms are available in the Campus Links Section of UMBeInvolved ). Both completed forms must be returned to your advisor and can be faxed to 617-287-7978 or emailed.  All forms must be completed at a minimum of 6 weeks prior to your event. I have completed a purchase request to pay a vendor from my student organization account. How long does it take to receive the payment? Payments to vendors can take 6-8 to process weeks to process if a vendor is not on the system. Make sure to turn in all paperwork well in advance of the event if you need to hand a vendor a check the day of an event. I am a member of a student organization and put in a request for space through the online reservation system (25Live). How long does it typically take to receive confirmation for an event? Once you submit a request for space, whether it be in the Campus Center or other buildings, you should hear back within 3-5 business days. If you do not hear back after 5 business days, then you can follow up directly with the Campus Center Events Services Office . When is the last day a student organization can use their money allocated for the academic year? The deadline to use student organization funds will be the last day of classes each semester. Office of Student Activities and Leadership Campus Center, 3 rd Floor 3400 617-287-7950 (telephone) 617-287-7978 (fax) student.activities@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms