PhD Student Jacob Adamczyk Receives IMPACT Award - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News PhD Student Jacob Adamczyk Receives IMPACT Award Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Research Science & Mathematics PhD Student Jacob Adamczyk Receives IMPACT Award from the American Physical Society 04/22/2024 |
    Sandra Mason The award recognizes exceptional graduate students whose work impacts the field of data science. Jacob Adamczyk, PhD candidate in the Physics Department, teaching about the attention mechanism in transformer models. At the 2024 annual meeting of the American Physical Society (APS), Physics PhD student Jacob Adamczyk was presented with an IMPACT award by the APS Topical Group on Data Science (GDS). The esteemed national award is given each year to only a handful of graduate students based on their impact on data science and their potential for continued success in the field. “This award is a recognition of the amazing accomplishments Jacob has already made as he progresses in his PhD research. He is effectively creating a new field which can be termed ‘physics-informed reinforcement learning’ and he has published several papers related to this topic in the leading journals in both physics and computer science,” said Adamczyk’s advisor, Professor of Physics and Department Chair Rahul Kulkarni. Adamczyk's current research focus is on reinforcement learning, an exciting area of machine learning used to solve sequential decision-making problems. "I work at the intersection between theory and algorithms, where our group uses insights from physics to develop novel approaches to solve reinforcement learning problems,” said Adamczyk. Adamczyk’s research is closely tied to his teaching efforts. This semester, he developed and is teaching an informal course on deep learning. He created the class to make the revolutionary field of deep learning more accessible to a wider audience. In the class, he covers a broad range of deep learning topics (backpropagation, gradient descent, MLPs, CNNs, ResNets, RNNs, Transformers, Reinforcement Learning), and includes discussion of state-of-the-art models and applications. The engaging course has received rave reviews from the physics, computer science, chemistry, and mathematics majors in the class. Before joining UMass Boston, Adamczyk earned Honors BS degrees in physics and mathematics at Cleveland State University. He contemplated whether to join industry or academia when he graduated college. After meeting Kulkarni and other faculty from UMass Boston’s Physics Department, Adamczyk knew he wanted to pursue a PhD at UMass Boston. He explained that “the physics department’s interests aligned well with my own: biophysics, quantum computing, and machine learning. In fact, I was able to learn about machine learning from conversations with Professor Kulkarni before I was even a UMass Boston student.” “Jacob’s contributions to the field and to the UMass Boston community are quite remarkable. We are fortunate to have him as a graduate student in our physics department,” said Kulkarni. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms