Human Resources Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Skip to Content Human Resources Keywords Search Human Resources Employees Employee Dropdown Annual Enrollment Benefits Benefits at a Glance Employee Assistance Program Employee Verification Graduate & Undergraduate Student Employees Hiring Process Holidays New Employees Staffing & Compensation Contingent Worker vs. Vendor Information Salary Scale Union Contracts/Collective Bargaining Visas Voluntary Separation Incentive Program Years of Service Leaving UMass Boston Supervisors Supervisors Dropdown Employee Assistance Program Flexible Work Schedule & Telecommuting Hiring Process Performance Evaluations Pre-employment Paperwork Staffing & Compensation Contingent Worker vs. Vendor Information Salary Scale Supervisor Checklist for New Employee Onboarding Union Contracts/Collective Bargaining Visas Workers' Compensation Prospective Employees Prospective Employees Dropdown Background Checks Benefits at a Glance Getting Here Graduate & Undergraduate Students Training & Development HR Quick Links Benefits Careers Contact Employee Relations Forms HR Direct Job Aids Payroll Policies Employees Learn about your benefits, update your personal information, find the holiday schedule. Your collective bargaining agreements may be accessed here as well. Supervisors Here you’ll find the Supervisor's Checklist, the Employee Entrance Form, and the Employee Exit Checkout Form. You'll also get information on performance evaluations. Training & Development Get to the next step in your professional career. Learn about the professional development opportunities available to you here. Prospective Employees We’re glad you’re considering working at UMass Boston! Learn about the benefits that we have to offer members of the UMass Boston family. Join the UMass Boston Team! Everyone at UMass Boston is proud of its diverse, culturally rich work environment, where taking initiative is valued, being a responsive team member is expected, and new ideas are encouraged. Our faculty and staff believe in the university’s research mission with a teaching soul that serves both traditional and non-traditional students. The Human Resources staff is committed to providing the university community with a broad range of services that are essential to attracting, supporting, developing, and retaining a high-quality workforce. We serve as the university’s main resource for information about career opportunities , benefits, compensation, professional development, and work-related issues and concerns. Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd., Boston, MA 02125 | Tel: 617.287.5000 All trademarks, service marks and trade names (e.g., the UMass Boston name, the lighthouse, and B insignia) are owned, registered and/or licensed by the University of Massachusetts Boston.