Pension Action Center - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Pension Action Center Home Pension Action Center Menu menu Menu About Us Contact Us Donate El Centro De Accion En Pensiones Pension Resources Sponsors We help people navigate the maze of policies and laws to secure their retirement income. The Pension Action Center, part of UMass Boston's Gerontology Institute, provides free legal counseling for workers and retirees who live or worked in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Illinois. Submit Request for Assistance Clic Aquí Para Español Education & Impact PAC’s FY23 Annual Report Read about our recent growth and accomplishments SECURE 2.0 Education We're offering sessions to explain the new law's pension overpayment protections. Explore the Pension Action Center People Request help Fact Sheets & Booklets Support Us About Us Who We Are We are experienced pension lawyers and pension counselors who can help you understand your rights under pension law and claim the retirement income benefits that you have earned. What We Do We can help workers, retirees, and their families in New England and Illinois resolve problems like these: You are entitled to a pension but you don’t understand the process or the employer is unresponsive so you are not receiving it. You have a vested pension in a company that has gone bankrupt and you can’t find the plan. You have worked for a company or union over a period of years but you are being denied a pension because of a break-in-service or other reasons the company gives for saying you are not vested. You need help finding your employment records to prove your eligibility. Your employer abandons its 401(k) plan so you can’t access your money. Your spouse has died and you are impoverished because their pension was terminated even though you never waived your right to a survivor benefit. You start receiving a pension substantially less than you expected because the plan has miscalculated your benefit. If you are outside of New England or Illinois, please visit the Pension Rights Center to see if there is a similar service available in your area. Currently, 30 states are served by a free pension-counseling program. Contact Us Pension Action Center Gerontology Institute, University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone (Toll-Free) : 1.888.425.6067 Phone (Local): 617.287.7307 pension@umb.edu Disclaimer The information on the Pension Action Center’s website is intended to provide general information about pensions and other retirement benefits and should not be used as a substitute for a consultation with an attorney or other legal professional. Individuals should always consult a legal or financial advisor to discuss the facts and circumstances of their specific situation. Because of the rapidly changing nature of the law affecting pensions and other retirement benefits, the information published online by the Pension Action Center is subject to change without notice. Although every effort has been made to verify the accuracy of information presented, there may be errors. If you find inaccurate data on our web site, please let us know by sending an email to the Pension Action Center. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms