Colleges & Schools - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Colleges & Schools Home Academics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools menu Colleges & Schools College of Management Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences School for the Environment College of Education & Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Science & Mathematics Dream, Create, Experiment & Transform Boston's only public research university has the professors and resources to help you change your community and the world. UMass Boston's six academic colleges and schools offer 200+ degree and certificate programs. Work to improve health care equity as a nursing student, or combat climate change as an environmental science major. Find the field that inspires you. Two of our colleges contain specialized embedded schools: the McCormack Graduate School of Policy & Global Studies in the College of Liberal Arts, and the School for Global Inclusion & Social Development in the College of Education & Human Development. If you're an undergraduate student looking for additional academic challenges and research opportunities, check out our Honors College . Colleges & Schools menu Colleges & Schools College of Management Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences School for the Environment College of Education & Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Science & Mathematics Our Academic Colleges & Schools College of Management Become a business or community leader through our cutting-edge business programs. Discover a full range of management courses and concentrations that prepare you for today’s competitive job market. You’ll learn cutting-edge principles and immerse yourself in business theory and practice. Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences Acquire the nursing or health care skills you need to provide exceptional care to patients or become a leader in exercise and health sciences. You'll learn to serve diverse communities to bring equity to the health care system. Choose from a variety of programs that will fit your career needs. School for the Environment Become an environmental leader and build a more sustainable future for all. Study environmental studies, urban planning, or marine science with our passionate faculty. Conduct research to create change for our planet. College of Education & Human Development Prepare for a career educating and empowering others. The College of Education & Human Development will help you become a licensed teacher, counselor, administrator, psychologist, or researcher. College of Liberal Arts Study a wide variety of disciplines through the College of Liberal Arts. You can choose from the humanities, social sciences, languages, and fine arts fields. You’ll learn to think critically and communicate effectively to shape a more just society. College of Science & Mathematics Understand complex scientific concepts in your area of interest and apply them to the real world. Learn from our expert professors in fields such as biology, computer science, and engineering. You'll even partner with them to conduct and publish research. The McCormack School The McCormack School is a nationally recognized leader in public service education dedicated to social justice and equity. With innovative interdisciplinary programs, cutting-edge research, and global partnerships, we address pressing societal issues. School for Global Inclusion & Social Development SGISD is committed to ending exclusion and advancing human rights by ensuring that people of all abilities can participate in the social, economic, cultural, political, and civil aspects of their communities. Honors College Meet and study alongside a cohort of academically driven peers in the Honors College. You'll also complete a research program in your major and receive a special honors designation on your diploma when you graduate. Next Steps Majors & Programs Financial Aid Admissions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms