Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Education Academic Departments Curriculum & Instruction Student Resources Menu menu Menu Research & Engagement Academic Departments Counseling & School Psychology Curriculum & Instruction Faculty & Staff Student Resources Teach Next Year Leadership in Education School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Student Success Scholarships & Financial Support Alumni Spotlight Faculty & Staff Dean's Office Student Resources University Policies & Regulations Familiarize yourself with University Policies and Regulations and the Code of Student Conduct . Office of Career Services The Office of Career Services is designed to help you explore career possibilities, investigate employment trends, and consider graduate school options. Their staff can provide individual advising and workshops on job search strategies, resume writing, and interviewing. Their online career database, Handshake , provides UMass Boston students and alumni access to job postings, career event details, on-campus recruitment activities, and the bi-weekly Job Bulletin. In addition, the Career Resource Library offers many helpful publications related to careers and graduate study. This library is open Monday thru Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., and can be used on a walk-in basis. About Curriculum & Instruction The Department of Curriculum and Instruction prepares future educators in several areas, including early childhood, elementary, middle/secondary education, and special education. The department also includes undergraduate programs in Elementary and Middle/Secondary Education and Early Education and Care in Inclusive Settings. The experienced faculty have relationships with urban schools, child care programs, and early intervention agencies and have deep knowledge of best practices as well as developmentally appropriate practices, research and grant experience in a variety of methodologies and applied research activities, and teaching experience across the spectrum of higher education. Consistent with the missions of the College of Education and Human Development and the university, the department is committed to providing students with the knowledge, skills and dispositions necessary to promote professional excellence in urban settings, the understanding that culture and worldview shape meaning in every aspect of individual and group life, the ability to engage in critical and creative inquiry and in continuous learning, and the recognition of the instructional advantages of new technologies in addressing the learning needs of all students. Throughout each program, there is an emphasis on social justice and student advocacy. All programs provide a context by which candidates can reflect on their teaching practices and view themselves as active contributors to school improvement. Each program has licensure and non-licensure options for students. The programs aim to prepare thoughtful and responsive educators who: demonstrate professional commitments by upholding ethical behaviors, pursuing life-long learning, dedicating oneself to serve others, and acknowledging human resilience and capability to learn; possess breadth and depth in content and pedagogical knowledge , assessment practices, and the use of technology in practice; and implement best practices by demonstrating caring behavior, collaborating productively with others, reflecting on how to improve professional practices, and promoting social justice as social change agents. The teacher preparation programs seek to ensure that all of its graduates are prepared to teach in diverse, urban settings, engage students through inclusive practices, hold all students to high expectations, and impart content knowledge at the highest conceptual levels. Contact Us Administrative or Faculty Inquiries Paloma Britt, Administrative Assistant Curriculum and Instruction 617.287.7591 Paloma.Britt@umb.edu Field Placement Inquiries Moira Downes, Field Placement Coordinator 617.287.7942 Moira.Downes@umb.edu Prospective Student Inquiries Office of Student Services 617.287.7625 Student.ServicesEd@umb.edu Wheatley Hall, 1st Floor, Rooms 50 & 51 Teach Next Year Inquiries Alicia Savannah, TNY Coordinator 617.287.7240 Alicia.Savannah@umb.edu Department of Curriculum and Instruction 617.287.7591 paloma.britt@umb.edu Why Curriculum and Instruction Our faculty are dedicated to teacher and educator preparation and are passionate about children and youth across the age spectrum. Through our research and work in schools and community settings, we impact state, national, and global policy on early childhood education, youth development, and social justice education. We train early interventionists, infant and toddler teachers, preK-12 teachers, transition specialists, and leaders from a unique social justice perspective that emphasizes developing caring, reflective educators who are lifelong learners and who value family and community engagement. Our training is both academic and applied. We teach knowledge and skills, but all of our programs prepare students to conceptualize the whole person in socio-cultural-developmental, family, and multicultural contexts. Student learning prioritizes a social justice perspective and a focus on diverse populations from childhood through adulthood, in schools, communities, early childhood settings, homes, and agencies. Our graduates succeed in obtaining the careers they desire, whether in a center, agency, school or at a university, and in changing the world for the people they serve. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms