Philosophy, Law & Ethics BA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Philosophy, Law & Ethics BA Home Academics Majors & Programs Philosophy, Law & Ethics BA Request Info Loading... Learn the analytical pursuit of answers to complex questions. As a student in the Philosophy, Law and Ethics Bachelor's program, you will seek answers to philosophical interests as they relate to the individual, society and the state. You will pursue these questions systematically and in depth, and may seek a career in the law, government, social service, or other fields where moral issues and value questions frequently arise. In this program, you will: Develop your analytical skills and ability to critically evaluate complex ethical and political issues Gain a strong grounding in both historical and contemporary perspectives on ethical and political issues, enabling you to engage with these issues in a broader context Fine-tune your oral and written communication skills, and acquire the tools you need to express your ideas and arguments clearly and persuasively Career Possibilities Pursue a career in law, using your analytical skills to excel as a lawyer or legal researcher. Work at a nonprofit or community-based organization, using your knowledge of ethical and political issues to address social and environmental justice issues. Or, become an educator, teaching philosophy or related subjects to the next generation of activists.  Whatever your goals, UMass Boston is here to support you. Become a(n): Lawyer/ paralegal Activist Politician Professor Corporate Responsibility Specialist People and Culture Manager Journalist Plan Your Education How to Apply Apply for Admission Please review the first-year and transfer apply pages for important information about application requirements, deadlines, and application status check. Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students Required Courses Introductory Philosophy Course (3 Credits): PHIL 100 - Introduction to Philosophy 3 Credit(s) or PHIL 108 - Moral and Social Problems 3 Credit(s) 200-Level Philosophy Course (3 Credits): PHIL 216 - The History of Ethics 3 Credit(s) or PHIL 218 - Major Social and Political Thinkers 3 Credit(s) Philosophy Area Electives (15 Credits): Take five courses from three areas listed below. At least one course must be completed in each area. History Area: PHIL 211 - Ancient Philosophy 3 Credit(s) PHIL 216 - The History of Ethics 3 Credit(s) PHIL 218 - Major Social and Political Thinkers 3 Credit(s) PHIL 297 - Asian Philosophy 3 Credit(s) PHIL 311 - Medieval Philosophy: Islamic, Jewish, Christian 3 Credit(s) PHIL 351 - Plato 3 Credit(s) PHIL 397 - Marxist Philosophy 3 Credit(s) PHIL 452 - Aristotle 3 Credit(s) PHIL 455 - Hegel and German Idealism 3 Credit(s) Theory Area: PHIL 290 - The Philosophy of Law 3 Credit(s) PHIL 318 - Race and Racism 3 Credit(s) PHIL 333 - Ethical Theory 3 Credit(s) PHIL 380 - Social & Political Philosophy 3 Credit(s) PHIL 395 - International Ethics 3 Credit(s) PHIL 450 - Rights 3 Credit(s) Problems Area: PHIL 210 - The Philosophy of Education 3 Credit(s) PHIL 215 - Philosophical Foundations of Public Policy 3 Credit(s) PHIL 220 - Environmental Ethics 3 Credit(s) PHIL 222 - Moral Issues in Medicine 3 Credit(s) PHIL 225 - The Philosophy of Religion 3 Credit(s) PHIL 230 - Philosophy and Feminism 3 Credit(s) Additional Electives (9 Credits): Take three additional philosophy courses from the list below. PHIL 100 - Introduction to Philosophy 3 Credit(s) or PHIL 108 - Moral and Social Problems 3 Credit(s) or PHIL 120 - Introduction to Logic 3 Credit(s) Any philosophy courses at the 200, 300, or 400-level except for PHIL 478 - Independent Study I and PHIL 479 - Independent Study II. Deadlines & Cost Early action deadline: November 1; Regular Decision Deadline: June 15 Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Related Minors Creative Writing The Creative Writing program is designed for students with interests in writing fiction, creative nonfiction, and poetry. Through the course of study, the program connects you to a creative writing community in which you can foster your writing talents and skills. Race, Ethnicity & Literature Minor The Race, Ethnicity, and Literature (REL) minor gives you the opportunity to encounter the literary expressions of diverse communities, including your own. If you are interested in learning more about African American, Asian American, Native American, and Latinx literature, then this is the concentration/minor for you. In addition to learning about diverse literatures and cultures, REL courses also teach literature in diverse ways so that you can take courses on everything from Race in Shakespeare to Latinx literature. Philosophy Learn more about UMass Boston's Philosophy department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Philosophy College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore the College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms