Africana Studies BA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Africana Studies BA Home Academics Majors & Programs Africana Studies BA Request Info Loading... Prepare for a career relevant to the development of the African world community. As a student of the Africana Studies BA program at UMass Boston, you will delve into the experiences, cultures, and histories of people of African descent. With a strong emphasis on critical thinking and interdisciplinary study, this program prepares you to understand and navigate complex social, political, and cultural issues in today's global society. In this program, you will: Learn about and understand the experiences, cultures, and histories of people of African descent and the African diaspora, including its history, cultures, social structures, and political movements Hone your critical thinking and analytical skills through analyzing complex social, political, and cultural issues from multiple perspectives Develop effective communication and advocacy skills, including the ability to defend positions on issues related to the African diaspora, both in writing and in oral presentations Career Possibilities Educate the next generation of Africana Studies students as a professor. Make a significant impact in your community as an advocate, or start your own non-profit. Or, leverage your knowledge of the African diaspora and its cultures to create innovative products, services, or marketing strategies that cater to diverse markets. Whatever your goals, UMass Boston is here to support you. Become a(n): Entrepreneur Lawyer Politician Artist/ Curator Community Advocate Educator Plan Your Education How to Apply Apply for Admission Please review the first-year and transfer apply pages for important information about application requirements, deadlines, and application status check. Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Deadline & Cost Early action deadline: November 1; Regular Decision Deadline: June 15 Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Curriculum For detailed course descriptions, please visit the university catalog for Africana Studies Major BA . Introductory Course (3 Credits) AFRSTY 111 - African-American History II 3 Credit(s) Electives (27 Credits) Take nine electives from courses offered through Africana Studies and approved courses from other departments. Students in the major must specialize in the area of humanities, history, or social science. At least five of the electives taken must be in the student’s area of specialization and at least one course must be taken in the other two areas. At least three courses must be at the 300-level or higher. No more than three courses from other departments may be applied toward this requirement. Specialization Areas History Specialization Students in the history area must take, as one of their ten major courses, one of the following methods courses: HIST 481 - Research & Methods: Senior Research Methods in History 3 Credit(s) Social Science Specialization Students in the social science area must take, as two of their ten major courses, a theory course and a methods course in one of the social sciences. Courses on the following list are approved for this requirement; students wishing to use other courses to meet the requirement should first seek the approval of the department chairperson. Methods Courses SOCIOL 202 - Methods of Sociological Research 3 Credit(s) Theory Courses ECON 201 - Microeconomic Theory 3 Credit(s) SOCIOL 201 - Sociological Theory 3 Credit(s) Classification of Courses Courses are classified as follows (please note that the same course may belong to more than one area): A. Courses in history AFRSTY 101 - Introduction to Africana Studies 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 110 - African-American History I 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 108 - African-American Social Movements 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 111 - African-American History II 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 225 - The Origins of Caribbean Civilizations 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 230 - African-American Women’s History 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 250 - The Civil Rights Movement 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 310 - Modern Caribbean Society 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 480 - Topics in Africana Studies 3 Credit(s) B. Courses in the humanities AFRSTY 100 - Introduction to African-American Literature 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 101 - Introduction to Africana Studies 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 110 - African-American History I 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 111 - African-American History II 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 230 - African-American Women’s History 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 260L - African-American Folklore 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 270 - The Black Image on Stage and Screen 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 301 - African-American Intellectual Thought 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 440 - Post-Colonial Literature: Africa and the Caribbean 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 480 - Topics in Africana Studies 3 Credit(s) C. Courses in the social sciences AFRSTY 101 - Introduction to Africana Studies 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 108 - African-American Social Movements 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 250 - The Civil Rights Movement 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 301 - African-American Intellectual Thought 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 320 - Problems in Urban Education 3 Credit(s) AFRSTY 480 - Topics in Africana Studies 3 Credit(s) Note AFRSTY 480 - Topics in Africana Studies, AFRSTY 489 - Senior Capstone Seminar, and AFRSTY 498 - Africana Studies Honors Seminar I may be used as applicable in any of the three areas of specialization. Graduate Criteria Degree Requirements If this is the student’s only or primary major, the degree requirements below must be completed for graduation. See graduation requirements for more information. University Requirements College of Liberal Arts Requirements for Bachelor of Arts Major Requirements Complete 30 credits of from ten courses including one introductory course and nine electives. Students within the major must choose an area of specialization in history, humanities, or social sciences. Pass/Fail: No more than one course taken pass/fail may be applied toward the major. Residency: At least six courses for the major must be completed at UMass Boston. Related Minors Africana Studies Minor Minor Requirements: Complete 18 credits from six courses including two introductory courses and four electives. Pass/fail: No more than one course taken pass/fail may be applied toward the minor. Residency: At least four courses applied toward the minor must be completed at UMass Boston. Africana Studies Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Africana Studies department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Africana Studies College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms