This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > UGRD > edc u > edc u 475 UTeach: Project-Based Instruction Course #: EDC U 475 Description: The Project-Based Instruction (PBI) course is based on the premise that project-based instruction engages learners in exploring authentic, important, and meaningful questions of real concern to secondary students. Project-based instruction promotes equitable and diverse participation and engages high school student sin learning. They learn fundamental science and mathematical concepts and principles that they can apply to their daily lives.The overall goal of this course is to help mathematics and science pre-service teachers develop the knowledge, dispositions, and skills needed to be effective teachers in middle and high schools.A major focus of this course is in developing an approach to designing, implementing, and evaluation problem-and project-based curricula and processes by employing approaches that have emerged from collaborations between teachers and researchers. Specifically, four common design principles are emphasized: 1. Defining learning appropriate goals that lead to deep understanding. 2. Providing scaffolds such as beginning with problem-based learning activities before completing a project; using embedded teaching, teaching tools, and a set of contrasting cases.3. Including multiple opportunities for formative self-assessment. 4. Developing social structures that promote participation and revision.PBI has three essential components:Theory-driven perspective: Students learn about how people learn and how project-based instruction may be among our most informed classroom learning environments for bridging the gap between theory and practice. Instructional development: Students develop technological and pedagogical content knowledge as they work toward the design of project-based units. They continually build competency as they read about and discuss the principles of PBI, reflect on observations of project-based learning environments in high school settings, and incorporate what they are learning into the design of problem-based lessons and Pre Requisites: Pre-req: EDC U 270 and EDC U 275 Offered in: TBA Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000