- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 Biology Professor Develops Interactive Website Ana Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Biology Professor Develops Interactive Website Analyzing COVID-19 Data 02/03/2021 |
    DeWayne Lehman Site Allows Visitors to Use CDC Data to Explore Trends, Hypotheses This graph shows a model-based estimate of the geographic distribution of new daily infections through time across U.S. states from Revell’s site. During the coronavirus pandemic that has forced many people to rethink how they use their forced time at home during social distancing and quarantines, UMass Boston Associate Professor of Biology Liam Revell decided to take on a new project: develop a website that enables users to interact with COVID-19 data over time and visibly see trends with dynamic graphics. “I’m a computational biologist, but I work mostly on evolutionary tools with evolutionary data,” says Revell. “Just out of my own personal interest, I started to pull down some of the publicly available data from the CDC and began doing some analyses. The first analyses I started with were looking at excess mortality.” By excess mortality, Revell means—as charts on his site show—the number of deaths during the coronavirus pandemic compared with deaths over previous year. As would be expected, the excess mortality rate peaks with the generally acknowledged trends of COVID-19 deaths, but his site enables users to drill down to see rates among particular age groups. “My interest stemmed initially from looking at this by age because COVID-19 is a disease that causes particularly serious complications among older people, so I wanted to look at excess mortality in different age groups,” says Revell, who notes frequently seeing news stories about younger people dying from the disease. “So that’s what I designed the interface to do because I hadn’t seen anything like that that was available and easy to interact with.” This ‘iceberg graph’ shows the daily tally of new confirmed COVID-19 infections (above the ‘waterline’ in the plot) along with the estimated number of unobserved infections based on the model used by Revell (below it). The multifunctional website project explores COVID-19 infections and deaths through time, among states, and by sex and age. The platform, according to Revell, uses a relatively simple model to estimate the true number of infections (rather than simply observed cases) through time, and the results it yields are highly consistent with estimates from prominent research centers, such as the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington. “It is critical that we gain knowledge about this wicked pandemic so that we are better equipped to fight its deadly reach,” says UMass Boston Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco. “I thank and commend Dr. Revell for his work to further illuminate data of this disease.” “This type of data analysis is one part of the equation,” Revell says. “The other thing is just visualizing data—seeing precisely what the data show by age, state, geographic region, and so forth.” For example, bar charts showing weekly deaths compared with average deaths the previous year vary greatly as a user selects different age groups—showing almost no excess deaths in the under 25 age group but significant excess deaths starting with the 45-64 age group. And while other research models will provide similar data, Revell emphasizes the interactive component of his computational model. “One difference is that in those models the research team decides how the model is programmed. What this model allows you to do is to say, ‘Well, I have a hypothesis about how the infection fatality rate (the proportion of deaths among all those infected) has changed over time so I am going to set this hypothesis using these dates and ages groups.’ I’ve never seen something that does precisely this,” he says. “It also creates what I feel are fairly compelling data and model visualizations I haven't seen represented in the same way in either primary scientific or popular press literatures.” Revell frequently develops computational tools with grant support from the National Science Foundation, but this project is not externally funded. For more information, visit U.S. COVID-19 Explorer (covid19-explorer.org) . About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research addressing complex issues, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve more than 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms