Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Dean's Office Staff Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Research Student Success Center Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Welcome Staff Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Meet the Dean’s Office Staff Ricardo Castaño-Bernard, PhD Interim Dean Interim Dean Ricardo Castaño-Bernard earned his PhD and MSc in mathematics from the University of Warwick, United Kingdom, and a BSc in mathematics from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM). He joined UMass Boston in 2015 and served as a Graduate Program Director from 2016 to 2021. He was appointed Associate Dean for the Faculty Personnel, Research and Graduate Studies of the College of Science and Mathematics in 2021. Prior to joining UMass Boston, he was a Program Director in the Division of Mathematical Sciences at the National Science Foundation. Catalin Zara, PhD - Interim Associate Dean Karen Ricciardi, PhD - Associate Dean Executive Assistant to the Dean Laura Lopes Assistant Dean, Personnel and Operations Laura oversees all personnel and operational functions, with a strong emphasis on advancing the management enterprise of the College of Science and Mathematics (CSM). She spearheads the design and implementation of CSM management standards, best practices, and standard operating procedures while also serving as a liaison to both internal and external stakeholders concerning CSM operations. Before joining CSM in 2016, Laura had a diverse and successful career as a business owner, HR Generalist, and Communications Analyst. She holds an MBA from the University of Massachusetts Boston, a Master of Management degree from Cambridge College, and a Bachelor of Arts in Communication from Stonehill College. Karen Doherty Assistant Dean, Administration, and Finance Alexander Gritsinin Director, Strategic Initiatives As CSM’s Director of Strategic Initiatives Alexander helps build and maintain the capacity of the college to follow its strategic direction, drive change efforts and lead work streams for key strategic initiatives. He works with senior leadership, faculty, and staff on the design and implementation of transformative projects to promote the mission of the College and to enrich the collaboration among students, faculty, and staff. Alexander also assists with targeted fundraising efforts and helps identify, establish, and maintain strategic partnerships. Additionally he leads the development of compatible management processes and suitable monitoring and evaluation plans for strategic initiatives. Alexander has more than 15 years of international experience in scientific research institutions, corporations, and international organizations including Yale University, Coca-Cola, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), UNESCO, and the Nature Conservancy. He holds master’s degrees in biophysics and ecology from Uzbekistan National University and in environmental management and policy from Yale University Marshall Milner Executive Director, Science Training Programs Teresa Goyette Interim Director, Student Success Center Velina Batchvarov Student Success Program Coordinator Velina earned her baccalaureate and master’s degrees in economics, plus an architecture diploma, in Bulgaria. She graduated from the MBA program at UMass Boston with a concentration in marketing management. Prior to joining CSM as the Student Success Program Coordinator, Velina worked as a grants and program manager for the PhD Program in Nursing at UMass Boston. Velina has taught at the Bulgarian Sunday School in Boston. She volunteers for the Board of the Meridian Academy in Jamaica Plain. Velina is currently pursuing her PhD in Higher Education at UMass Boston. Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms