Walking Group - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Sigs Walking Group Menu menu Menu About Contact Courses Events Join Sigs Books Culinary Informal Writing Group Intergenerational Book Chat Knitting Group Stonewall At Olli Walking Group Walking Group The goal of the Walking Group is to promote a healthy lifestyle through walking, as well as provide a chance for socialization with other OLLI members. The group takes advantage of the area’s natural resources, and are enhanced by the camaraderie of the group. Walks usually take about 90 minutes and the group can accommodate walkers of various abilities. We have room for tortoises and hares. Members can walk with others who keep the same pace. Most walking locations tend to be accessible by public transportation or have parking nearby. Pending on locations, members are often encouraged to car pool as well. There might be some walk routes that may not always end where they started. This is an independent SIG and members are encouraged to suggest and lead walks of their own. If you are interested in learning more about the group, please contact Anne Semler at annesemler@gmail.com . If you would like to join the group, please call the OLLI Office at 617.287.7312 or email ollireg@gmail.com . Some Past Walks: February 2019 – Southwest Corridor Park. The second walk of the newly reorganized group took members along the Southwest Corridor Park.  They started at Back Bay Station and proceeded to walk to Forest Hills. December 2018 – HarborWalk and Carson Beach. OLLI members enjoyed connecting with the Boston HarborWalk at the UMass Boston Campus and walked along it to Carson Beach and then back to campus. Osher Lifelong Learning Institute McCormack Hall, 3rd Floor, Room 003 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 USA 617.287.7312 Maps & Directions Having trouble reading this page? If you are using a PC, press and hold down the Ctrl key while also pressing=. If you are using a Mac, the keystroke ⌘+ will enlarge the size of the font. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms