Math - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Testing Services Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Academic & Career Engagement & Success Testing Services Math Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Student Referral Program Testing Services College Level Examination Program Self-Guided Writing Placement Math Policies Proctoring Services Spanish Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Math Announcements Students who are registered with the Ross Center for Disability may request testing accommodations. ALEKS Score Report Chart 1-1 ALEKS Assistance Appointments UMass Boston Testing Center What is ALEKS? ALEKS is an online, adaptive math assessment, consisting of 25 questions, which is accessible through the WISER System.  You may take the ALEKS Placement Assessment up to three times. You will have 120 minutes (two hours) to complete the assessment. The Preparation & Learning module is required for retesting: three hours between the first and second attempt and five hours between the second and third attempt. ALEKS ‘adapts’ to your ability level.  The first questions asked will be drawn from across the curriculum and may be too easy or too difficult.  As the assessment proceeds, your answers will be used to give the system an idea of your knowledge, and it will gradually focus the questioning in a way appropriate to your individual skill level.  By the end of the assessment, you should find the questions generally challenging, but reasonable for your individual level of knowledge.  It is likely that you will be asked questions on material you have not yet learned.  On such questions, it is appropriate to answer, “I don’t know.”  However, on any question that you have familiarity with, it is important to do your best.  “I don’t know” is interpreted by ALEKS to mean that you do not know the topic, which will be reflected in the results.  If you don’t do your best on the assessment, ALEKS will underestimate your ability. ALEKS is more than a traditional math test because it offers a built-in, personalized Preparation and Learning module to help you improve your math skills. The Assessment consists of thirty questions covering material from Basic Math through Pre-calculus.  After the initial assessment, you will receive a score, which will be uploaded to WISER and used for placement purposes.  In addition to the score, you will receive a detailed progress report of your math skills in the form of a pie chart, and the opportunity to access a 12 month personalized Preparation and Learning module and retest if necessary. The module will help you to strengthen your skills and possibly help you to receive a higher placement.  It will also better prepare you for success in your upcoming math class.   Your Academic Advisor will have access to your ALEKS score and can help you decide what class to take or whether you should retest. For in-person testing through the Testing Center, photo identification is required and cell phones must be turned off and given to the proctor. You may take ALEKS a total of three times; however, you must wait 24 hours before retesting.  You will also be required to spend time in the Preparation & Learning module between each attempt, see below: -Three hours between the first and second attempt. -Five hours between the second and third attempt. Who needs to take ALEKS? The ALEKS math placement exam is required of ALL incoming undergraduate transfer students EXCEPT: Students who have an SAT or ACT score within two years, as noted in the chart above. Liberal arts students receiving math transfer credit who do not intend to take more math courses. Science students receiving transfer credit for college algebra or pre-calculus with a grade of B or better in the most recent semester, and students transferring in calculus or higher mathematics courses. Management students receiving transfer credit for college algebra with a grade of B or better in the most recent semester, and students transferring in pre-calculus or higher mathematics courses. Bachelor of Arts students and nursing students receiving transfer credit for statistics. How to access ALEKS To access the ALEKS Math Assessment: Log into WISER →My Academics→Placement Testing→ALEKS Math Place, Prep, Learn. Make sure the pop-up blocker on your internet browser is disabled or the link will not open. Things to note when taking your first ALEKS exam The best time to take ALEKS is before your enrollment appointment for the upcoming semester.  Scores are valid one year. Know when your assessment and Preparation & Learning Module expires. Make sure you have two hours of uninterrupted quiet time.  Take the assessment at a time when you feel most alert. Calculators are not allowed, but ALEKS will provide an on-screen calculator if you need one to complete a particular problem. Have a pencil and plenty of scratch paper. Take the assessment seriously but relax because you can re-test after your initial assessment.  To improve your score, you have 12 months to use the Preparation and Learning module. When finished, you will receive the score of your initial assessment. You can register for the course that you placed into, or any lower level course,but note important sequencing considerations . Students can self-register for courses based on ALEKS and SAT/ACT scores, but should consult an advisor to ensure appropriate course selection based on major/degree requirements. Students must consult an advisor for registration based on high school performance. SAT refers to the SAT MSS (Math) score and ACT refers to the Mathematics score; SAT and ACT scores expire two years after they are taken. Students currently taking the prerequisite course will be allowed to enroll before they earn a grade, but will be dropped from the course at the start of the term if they have not met the minimum grade requirement.  It is the student’s responsibility to adjust their schedule accordingly after grades are posted. Students whose prerequisites have expired (see the score report/prerequisite chart) must take the ALEKS placement test. Students may take the ALEKS placement exam if they wish to access an online preparation and learning module or if they wish to place higher. Academic performance in high school is used to determine placement into either Math 114QR or Math 115 only. This placement criterion is aligned with guidelines prescribed by the MA Department of Higher Education. Consult with your advisor for registration into Math 114QR or Math 115 based on meeting this criterion. Students pursuing a BA degree can meet the QR requirement by placement into Math 125 or higher through a University-approved math placement test taken in a proctored setting at the UMass Boston Testing Center. Pre-requisite Information First Year Students: First year UMass Boston students are required to fulfill a quantitative reasoning requirement as soon as possible within their first year.  Students who have completed high school in the United States within three years may place into mathematics courses based upon their academic performance in high school and/or qualifying scores on the SAT or ACT if taken within the past two years. Students may register for the desired math course if they have met the course prerequisite or have a valid minimum test score in ALEKS, or SAT/ACT. *For placement based on high school performance, see # 6 below. Students can self-register for courses based on ALEKS and SAT/ACT scores, but should consult an advisor to ensure appropriate course selection based on major/degree requirements. Students must consult an advisor for registration based on high school performance. Important Notes: SAT refers to the SAT MSS (Math) score and ACT refers to the Mathematics score; SAT and ACT scores expire two years after they are taken. Students currently taking the prerequisite course will be allowed to enroll before they earn a grade, but will be dropped from the course at the start of the term if they have not met the minimum grade requirement.  It is the student’s responsibility to adjust their schedule accordingly after grades are posted. Students whose prerequisites have expired (see table for timeframes) must take the ALEKS placement test. See the Math Department for Accuplacer equivalents (valid for one year). Students may take the ALEKS placement exam if they wish to access an online preparation and learning module or if they wish to place higher. Academic performance in high school is used to determine placement into either Math 114QR or Math 115 only. This placement criterion is aligned with guidelines prescribed by the MA Department of Higher Education. Consult with your advisor for registration into Math 114QR or Math 115 based on meeting this criterion. Students pursuing a BA degree can meet the QR requirement by placement into Math 125 or higher through a University-approved math placement test taken in a proctored setting at the UMass Boston Testing Center. Transfer Students The ALEKS math placement exam is required of ALL incoming undergraduate transfer students EXCEPT: Students who have an SAT or ACT score within two years, as noted in the chart above. Liberal arts students receiving math transfer credit who do not intend to take more math courses. Science students receiving transfer credit for college algebra or pre-calculus with a grade of B or higher, and students transferring in calculus or higher mathematics courses. Management students receiving transfer credit for college algebra with a grade of B or higher, and students transferring in pre-calculus or higher mathematics courses. Bachelor of Arts students and nursing students receiving transfer credit for statistics. Important sequencing considerations: You will lose math transfer credit if you register for a course that is at or below the level you transferred in. For example, if you transfer in Pre-calculus (Math 130), and then take College Algebra (Math 115), you would lose the Math 130 transfer course. Improve your Math Skills & ALEKS score. ALEKS Placement, Preparation & Learning Modules (found directly on ALEKS) help students prepare for a retest. Subject Tutoring in the Healey Library on an appointment basis, with some drop-in tutoring for select courses are available as a resource. The Taffee Tanimoto Mathematics Resource Center provides tutoring on an appointment and drop-in basis. Waivers of Quantitative Reasoning for Bachelor of Arts Students If you are a Bachelor of Arts (BA) student, you have the opportunity to receive a waiver of the Quantitative Reasoning requirement for your degree, provided that you earn an ALEKS score of 51 or higher which is placement into Math 125: Statistics.  Credit is not awarded, but a waiver notation will be posted on your degree progress report. You will, however, need to test in the UMass Boston Testing Center under proctored conditions, or during the period of remote operations, you may request the test to be proctored via Zoom by a Testing Center staff member. Students are eligible for a proctored ALEKS exam if they have first demonstrated math placement through one of the following: Within one year, achieved a score of 51 or higher on ALEKS not taken at the Testing Center. Within two years, earned an SAT/ACT score of 550/23 or higher.  The score must be on a student's UMass Boston record. Additionally, Economics majors may request a proctored ALEKS exam through the Testing Center to meet their pre-calculus requirement. See the Economics Major Information sheet for details.  Please email uac.testing@umb.edu to schedule an appointment. After finishing your ALEKS exam If you’re satisfied with your score because it places you into your desired course, you will be able to register for that class within 24 hours. To potentially improve your class performance, we recommend that you utilize the Preparation and Learning module that is available for 12 months. If you’re dissatisfied with your score, you can re-test but you must spend three hours using the Preparation and Learning module before you take the assessment a second time and then five additional hours before you take it a third time.  Once you access the Preparation and Learning module you will have 12 months to use it. Academic Integrity Please understand UMass Boston’s academic honesty regulations.  For ALEKS to be effective, you must do the exam on your own without notes, books, or help from others.  ALEKS is not a traditional exam.  Instead, it’s a tool to help you place into an appropriate  course for which you have the best chance to succeed.   Any outside assistance might place you in a course for which you would not be prepared, and it could result in a lower GPA and possibly delay your degree progress.   Furthermore, it constitutes a violation of the university’s code of conduct. The following excerpts from the full code pertain to the academic honesty expectations when taking ALEKS. It is the expressed policy of UMass Boston that every aspect of academic life, not only formal coursework situations, but all relationships and interactions connected to the educational process shall be conducted in an absolutely and uncompromisingly honest manner. The following actions are prohibited by the code: Using any unauthorized material during an examination, such as notes, tests, calculators, cell phones, PDAs, or other electronic or mechanical communication devices. Abuse of cellular devices with photographic capabilities and use of devices for purposes of photographing test questions or other notes and materials. Obtaining answers to examination questions from another person with or without that person’s knowledge; furnishing answers to examination questions to another student; using or distributing unauthorized copies of or notes from an examination. Submitting as one’s own an examination taken by another person; or taking an examination in another person’s place. Violating the academic honesty policy may result in serious academic sanctions including, but not limited to, suspension or expulsion from the university. Troubleshooting What do I do if my computer crashes? Reboot your computer and log back in.  ALEKS will remember where you left off. Why doesn’t ALEKS open when I click on it? Check your pop-up blocker settings in your browser.  You may have to temporarily allow pop-ups on this site. I accessed the ALEKS website but it won't let me start an assessment Your assessment or Preparation & Learning module date may have expired. Email the Testing Center . I am having trouble inputting my answers. Click on the ALEKS 'Help' button. I am having technical problems inside ALEKS. What should I do? For ALEKS customer support, call 714-245-7191 ext. 201 Why is ALEKS Math PPL missing from my Quick Links? If you previously applied or attended UMass Dartmouth or UMass Lowell then you may need to select UMass Boston in your WISER User Preferences section.   To fix this problem, start from your Student Center page; under Personal Information, select 'User Preferences'.  Then, select UMass Boston as your default institution.   Click 'save'.   ALEKS Math PPL should appear in the Quick Links.  If not, call the Testing Center at 617-287-5522 for assistance. Notes for Advisors Math Placement Tip Sheet for Advisors Spring 2023 Advisors who need to access this page can email Teresa Goyette for assistance. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms