Elizabeth.Mccahill - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Elizabeth.Mccahill Elizabeth McCahill Department: History Title: Associate Professor Location: McCormack Hall Floor 04 Phone: 617.287.6864 Send Email Biography Associate Professor McCahill continues to research and publish on classical scholarship in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. At present, I am revising an article on the letters of Poggio Bracciolini to Niccolò Niccoli; the article examines the ways in which Poggio uses Cicero’s letters to Atticus as a model for his correspondence. Area of Expertise Professor McCahill’s research interests include the medieval and Renaissance reception of the classical legacy, early modern cultural and religious history, patronage and institutional history, humanism, and the city of Rome. She teaches undergraduate courses on Western Civilization, the Renaissance, Women in Medieval and Early Modern Europe, and Early Modern European Cities, as well as two upper level seminars “Saints, Witches and Heretics” and “The Society and the Individual in Premodern Europe.” In the graduate program, she teaches History 600 and 605 and will soon be offering a seminar on the Italian Renaissance. Degrees PhD, Princeton University BA, Yale University Professional Publications & Contributions Reviving the Eternal City: Rome and the Papal Court, 1420-1447 , I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History, Harvard University Press: Cambridge, MA, 2013. “Civility and Secularism in the Ambit of the Papal Court.” In After Civic Humanism , eds. Nicholas Baker and Brian Maxson, 131-151. Toronto: Toronto University Press, 2015. “Finding a Job as a Humanist: the Epistolary Collection of Lapo da Castiglionchio the Younger," Renaissance Quarterly , December 2004. “Rewriting Vergil, Rereading Rome: Maffeo Vegio, Poggio Bracciolini, Flavio Biondo and Early Quattrocento Antiquarianism,” Memoirs of the American Academy , 2009. Additional Information My first book, Reviving the Eternal City , explored the relationship between Rome and the Papal Court in the aftermath of the Western Schism and Avignon exile. With my second book project, Rome in the Age of the Lion , I am moving into the 16th century and analyzing the process of papal image making during the pontificate of Leo X (1513-1521). Drawing on anthropological and literary work on ritual, this book will explain how patronage, scholarship, and political realities all contributed to papal pageantry. It will also examine the ways in which Leo and his court used ceremony to express their lofty goals: peace throughout Italy and Europe, crusade to curtail or end the Turkish menace, and religious reform of both the clergy and the laity. Although Leo did not manage to carry out his ambitious program, his ceremonies established rhetorical, artistic, and performative norms that continue to influence European and American representations of authority. Cicero’s prestige helps Poggio both to craft a professional persona and to negotiate his relationship with his ornery friend. I am also revising a book chapter “Humanism between Medieval and Renaissance” in an edited volume, New Horizons for Early Modern Europe. The volume is an offshoot of a 2015 conference, Polymaths and Proofreaders: A Conference in Honor of Anthony Grafton on his 65th Birthday, of which I was one of the co-organizers. I am an active member of many scholarly organizations, including the Renaissance Society of America, Roma nel Rinascimento, and Sixteenth Century Studies. In the summer of 2016, I was an invited lecturer at Rome and the Jubilee, 1300-2015: An International Summer Seminar. Notre Dame's Rome Global Gateway, June 9-24, 2016. Professor McCahill's CV . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms