About Information Technology - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology About Information Technology Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Mission, Vision & Values Policies IT Outcomes Reports Student Jobs Project Management Office About Us Welcome to the Information Technology Services Division Technology is no longer an add-on to our lives, it is deeply integrated into everything we do. The UMass Boston IT Service Division's job is to make sure the technology we all need for teaching, learning, working, and research is useful, reliable, and secure. IT provides extensive services to meet faculty's technology needs of delivering instruction remotely and in the classroom . We offer computer resources in many forms, including computer labs and classrooms , mobile laptop and iPad carts , permanent and loaner computers for office and remote working, as well as virtual cloud-based computer access . IT offers support and system administration for many applications powering the services that we offer, and that are offered by groups across the campus, as well as base essentials such as telephones , wifi , and email . UMass Boston is Boston's only public research university, and our Research Computing team provides many technology services to our campus researchers. IT also values technology innovation with efforts including 3D printing and virtual reality , and through encouraging internal " Technovation " working groups to investigate and systemize other emerging technologies. It is one of IT's most important duties, in all we do, to ensure that our users leverage these technologies in a secure manner, and so our Information Security Office operates within the IT department and is responsible for security technology and security training. That's a lot to take in! We recognize that technology can sometimes be confusing and frustrating. To help, we have built an "IT Toolbox" page to help summarize some of our most important apps so you can more quickly and easily understand which are useful to you and learn more. Check out our Mission, Vision, and Values page too! Need more help? We have many tech support offerings, including walk-in, phone, email, and live chat. Get IT Help from the IT Service Desk today! We look forward to working with you! Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms