Nantucket Field Station Reservation Request - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Nantucket Facilities Nantucket Field Station Reservation Request Menu menu Menu People Research & Impact Courses & Opportunities K-12 Experiences Seminars Facilities Nantucket Field Station Reservation Request Reservation information The UMass Nantucket Field Station provides the opportunity for affordable lodging and facility use for those individuals or groups with activity aligning with the mission of the station: supporting education, scholarship, research and University approved activity that is Nantucket based. Standard Lodging rates are for one bed per night (UMass rate/Standard rate) Bunkhouse ($30 UMass rate/$60 standard rate) sleeps 15. Seasonal Off-site Housing near town ($50 UMass rate/$100 standard rate) Vehicles ($40- $90day, UMass Boston personnel only are covered to drive) Conference room use $75/$150 There is a fee for laboratory use and particular types of equipment or instruction. A description of your project is needed in order to justify station use, please include funding source. Groups or individuals that cancel their reservation less than one week from arrival or departure will be charged a cancellation fee of $50.00 (3 bed or less cancellation) or $100.00 (4 or more bed cancellation), unless it is weather imposed. Contact Information First Name: Last Name: Phone: Email: What is the name of your institution, program, center, lab and/or group. What is your affiliation with UMass: UMass Boston UMass System Collaborator None Are you the group leader? No Yes Group Leader First Name: Last Name: Phone: Email: Reservation Information How many nights would you like to reserve: How many beds do you need? (how many people staying overnight?) Please indicate your desired arrival date for this trip: Please indicate your departure date for this trip: Are these dates flexible? No Yes Maybe Please check all that apply to your reservation: Course or workshop Student group visit Research or scholarly visit Meeting or conference Other K12 visit Briefly describe your research, event or endeavor and how the Nantucket Field Station is needed to support it: Please indicate the sleeping facilities your are interested in booking: Bunkhouse (sleeps 15) I would like exclusive use of the bunkhouse I am willing to share the bunkhouse with other researchers Season off-site housing (instructor, intern, researcher) near town I would like exclusive use of a bedroom None If bringing K12 students, what are the ages of the students? What is your organization's name? Do you have permission slips, allergy information, emergency contract information for all students? How is your trip being funded?  Do you have a university speed type number? Please indicate the lab facilities your are interested in booking: Lab (teaching space for 16) 1 Lab research bench 2 Lab research benches 3 Lab research benches Lab (freezer storage) Lab (equipment storage) Lab equipment use None Please indicate the vehicle(s) facilities your are interested in booking: (UMB only) 11 passenger van (12 seats) (UMB only) 7 passenger van (7 seats) (UMB only) I need multiple vehicles Ferry pick up and drop off Remote site transportation None What is your specific area of study or interest? Have you published work supported by the use of the Nantucket Field Station? Yes No Not yet but expect to Other Are you a returning user? Yes, I tend to visit annually Yes, but it has been a few years No, this is my first visit Would you be interested in speaking about the work you do on Nantucket? Yes No Maybe Other FOR LAB USERS:  Briefly describe any chemicals protocols to be carried out in the lab. Include chemicals used, waste generated and plastic disposables that would accumulate. If you have questions or concerns please let us know: FOR UMASS USERS ONLY: Please provide the speed type  of the account to be charged. Contact Information UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms