Facilities - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home The Manning College Departments & Centers Exercise & Health Sciences Facilities Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Nursing Exercise & Health Sciences Faculty Research & Impact Facilities Student Resources Gerontology Urban Public Health Center for Clinical Education & Research Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Facilities The Exercise and Health Sciences (EHS) Department has facilities that provide support for teaching, research, and service to the community. There are several dedicated laboratory spaces including the Exercise and Health Sciences Lab, the Applied Physiology Lab, the Exercise and Health Sciences Assessment Lab, the Exercise and Health Sciences Tutoring Room, and the Exercise Physiology Research Labs. Looking for hands-on learning and practical experiences? Visit the Exercise and Health Sciences and Applied Physiology Labs! The Exercise and Health Sciences Lab is the primary facility for laboratory courses and is fully equipped with exercise physiology and fitness equipment for teaching and use in student and faculty research projects. Primary equipment in the Exercise and Health Sciences Lab include: Metabolic cart Lab-grade treadmills Cycle ergometers Electrocardiogram Accelerometers & Pedometers The Applied Physiology Lab (APL) is the primary facility for fitness training and strength and conditioning courses, research, and UMass Boston community events. The facility includes an open wood floor and a designated free weights area with Rogue Fitness equipment. Resources and equipment in the Applied Physiology Lab include: Cycle ergometers Weight machines Free weights, benches, and rack Visit the Assessment Lab if you need a place to conduct your thesis or research project. The Exercise and Health Sciences Assessment Lab is utilized for fitness and health assessment and is equipped with muscular strength, body composition, and exercise testing equipment for teaching, student and faculty research projects, and community service. Primary equipment in the Exercise and Health Sciences Assessment Lab includes: Isokinetic dynamometer Air Displacement Plethysmography Ultrasound Cycle ergometers Need a place to get help with your classes? Visit the Tutoring Room! The Exercise and Health Sciences Tutoring Room is a space dedicated to providing students with EHS tutoring and is also equipped for students to master hands-on health and fitness assessment skills taught in our Exercise and Health Sciences courses. Primary equipment in the Exercise and Health Sciences Tutoring Room includes various equipment used in the EHS Lab for skill acquisition such as blood pressure, body composition, and muscular strength assessment. Looking for a place to get experience and build your resume? Visit the EHS research and wet labs. The Exercise Physiology Research Labs are well equipped with state-of-the-art instruments for evaluating cardiovascular, neurovascular, and muscular function with various methods using an integrative approach. Equipment and resources in the Exercise Physiology Research Labs include: Electrocardiogram Blood pressure monitoring Ultrasound Blood flow monitoring Cycle ergometers The Exercise and Health Sciences Department also has a wet lab with equipment including: Electrophoresis and blotting system CO2 incubator and biosafety cabinet for cell culture Equipment to measure mitochondrial oxygen consumption PCR thermocycler UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms