Accessibility Statement - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Accessibility Statement Accessibility Features This site includes the following accessibility features: Skip to content Alternative text detail for images Captioned videos SensusAccess Document Converter Tool Testing UMass Boston’s Web Services Team uses the tool Siteimprove to ensure new and existing pages on the www.umb.edu website comply with best practices and standards as defined by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 , Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act , and the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA ). The tool checks for, among other things, missing headings and images without alternative text. Web Services will continue to test the site to make sure that all content on the site is accessible to all visitors. Training As part of its training program for new web editors, UMass Boston’s Web Services goes over the importance of filling out all Alt Text fields. Having trouble reading this page? If you are using a PC, press and hold down the Control key while also pressing the equals symbol (=). To further enlarge the text, keep the Control key depressed while you press the equals key again. Each repetition will enlarge the text. If you are using a Mac, holding down the Command (⌘) key while hitting the plus sign key (+) will enlarge the size of the font. Feedback If you find something that does not meet your needs, let us know so we can address your concerns. Fill out our Feedback Form. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms