The Quad - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give The Quad Home Campus Life The Quad Vision & Planning The Quad is the beating heart of our campus. UMass Boston's Quad was envisioned in 2009 as a central, green connector bringing students, faculty, staff, and our visitors together when crossing the campus via a number of paths, to interact with each other and enjoy the outdoors. This six-acre quadrangle opened in 2024 and is the centerpiece of "UMass Boston 2.0." As Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco said upon its opening, “In so many ways—symbolically, aesthetically, functionally—at universities across our country, the Quad is the beating heart of the campus, a place of study, reflection, discovery, collaboration, socializing, and fun." The Quad was created to move the campus away from its original inward-facing layout, creating a welcoming environment with buildings well-connected to the landscape, the waterfront, and the surrounding communities. Much of the massive demolition and construction project was completed during the COVID pandemic. It included workers from every trade union and exceeded its targets for minority and women worker participation, achieving 40 and 10 percent, respectively. Check out the video of several years of work to transform our campus core into the lush green oasis it is today. On the Quad Experiences Each semester, UMass Boston hosts dynamic Quad events that help cultivate a thriving campus community. These outdoor experiences foster curiosity, well-being, inclusivity, and sustainability through a rich blend of scholarship, culture, and reflection. By combining learning, research, engagement, and fun, the Quad acts as a vibrant space for connection and growth. Check out some of our recurring Quad events below. Chancellor's BBQ At the start of each semester, all are welcome to kick off the semester with food, fun, music and more! Grab a bite to eat, enjoy free novelties, and take the opportunity to meet new people over a delicious barbecue meal. Beacon Wellness Walk Fair Join UMass Boston Health Services and Dining Services and various on-campus departments for an outdoor fair featuring booths from several departments, offering wellness resources and freebies, a smoothie bike, a hydration station, lawn games, fun activities, a reflective space at the Overlook, and giveaways along a scenic walk through the Quad. Rec the Halls An evening of festive fun hosted by UMass Boston Recreation each December, including free ice skate rentals, tasty treats from the Cookie Monstah food truck, an inflatable fun zone, and some sweet giveaways. Pop-Up Game Kiosk Looking for a fun way to unwind between classes or hang out with friends? Look for our Pop-Up Game Kiosk on the quad! We're bringing you classic games, but with a twist. Challenge your friends to a game of giant Jenga, strategize your next move in giant chess, or test your aim with cornhole. And don't forget about the classic Connect 4! It's all the fun of your favorite childhood games, scaled up for a bigger, better experience. Amenities The Quad has a variety of features for everyday community enjoyment. Some are seasonal, so be sure to check out what’s in season today. Basketball Court. No reservation required, just grab a ball and dial in your hoop skills! Recreation Field. A hub for recreational athletics, check out  umb.edu/athletics/recreation/ for a current list of outdoor activities to get your game on! The Upper Lawn. When major programs aren't happening, this is a great place to sit in the grass, read a book, or even watch the clouds and planes pass by. The Gathering Grove. A cool place to meet up with friends and chat in the open air. The Overlook. This cool little hidden gem is a nice place for a study group session or even a club meeting. Some Quad Numbers 500+ trees and thousands of shrubs and plantings beautify this central outdoor space 35,000 cubic yards of materials and soil were used for the base 14,520 square yards of contiguous open space comprise the Quad 80+ outdoor furniture pieces, including 30 benches and 50 tables, add comfort and convenience to the Quad Policies & Helpful Information Space Use Policy This policy govern s both formal and informal use of space at UMass Boston , including the Quad Wheels & Motorized Transportation Devices For the safety of other pedestrians please walk wheeled and personal motorized non-mobility-based modes of transport while on the quad pathways and campus plaza. Quad Pets For the enjoyment of all community members pets are not allowed on the quad lawns or walkways on or off-leash. Service animals and animals associated with official UMass Boston activities as needed are permitted. Vehicles Please note vehicles are not allowed on the Quad pathways, green areas, or on the campus plaza. In special circumstances based on their weight and purpose, vehicles may be allowed in certain areas of the north section of the Quad. For more details, please contact event.reservations@umb.edu . Planning an Event on The Quad Please contact Campus Center and Event Services for all the information you need to plan your event on The Quad. Quad Event Space Rental for External Organizations & Individuals Contact Campus Center and Event Services for all the information you need to plan your event on The Quad. For Neighbors of the UMass Boston Campus Our Quad is open to all! Please enjoy this community space while following the guidelines posted here and on the Quad. We kindly ask that you be mindful of UMass Boston faculty, staff, and students who have priority in the space for for academic and campus-related activities. Prohibited Outdoor Activities UMass Boston administration and/or the Department of Public Safety and Police prohibit the use of items during activities that present public safety risks, including but not limited to the construction or placement of structures including but not limited to tents, burning of objects, use of combustible substances, and/or involving animals other than service animals. Quad-Related Questions Contact Event Services UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms