- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 UMass Boston Honors 2020 and 2021 Doctoral Candida Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Honors 2020 and 2021 Doctoral Candidates at Hooding Ceremony 08/27/2021 |
    Vanessa Chatterley The journey toward achieving a doctorate degree in any discipline is already paved with obstacles and deterrents. And that’s without factoring in a global pandemic. “ It’s an overwhelming sense of accomplishment in the face of adversity. ” “It’s an overwhelming sense of accomplishment in the face of adversity,” said Bridget Bearden G’18, PhD’21, who faced her own adversities while pursuing her doctoral degree in public policy. In addition to having three children, all of whom had to transition into remote learning, Bearden also lost her job last year. “It’s a sense of relief and a light at the end of the tunnel.” Bearden is one of 212 doctoral candidates who reached that light at the end of the tunnel on August 25 with the conferral of their degrees. The university hosted two separate ceremonies to honor the doctoral candidates for 2020 and 2021 — 117 and 95 graduates, respectively. “I congratulate all the candidates, your mentors, and especially your supporters. These are the people who urged you on when the light at the end of the tunnel seemed just that little bit too far away,” said Vice Provost for Research & Dean of Graduate Studies Bala Sundaram. Kostas Koutsioumpas G’17, PhD ’21, a first-generation college graduate who hails from Greece and who earned his doctorate in global inclusion and social development, said it’s important for graduates to recognize their support systems as they celebrate this academic milestone. “I think [this achievement] belongs to all of them. That’s what it means to me. It was really more of a collective effort than just me,” he said, adding that his wife and family have been pillars of support during the past three years. “Without them, I wouldn’t make it to the point where I am today.” “We’re here today to appropriately pause — as we do annually, in the midst of our busy, fast-paced lives — to justifiably honor the incredible hard work, dedication, and resilience that is required as each of you are recognized as doctoral graduates from UMass Boston,” said Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Joseph Berger. “The knowledge, skills, and expertise that you have gained from each other, from your faculty advisors, from other faculty members, and a myriad of learning experiences here at UMass Boston prepared you well for a future that needs you and your scholarly expertise.” Watch UMass Boston's virtual and in-person commencement ceremonies at www.umb.edu/commencement . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms