Crisis Support - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home All of Us Black Men Crisis Support Menu menu Menu AAPI Black Men Academics Career Success Chancellor Statement Diversity Affirmative Action Community Crisis Support File A Complaint Black Women Inclusive Identity Latinidad Native American & Indigenous Pride Racial Climate Survey Crisis Support Dean of Students | The Dean of Students Office (DOS) is a central resource for students, staff, faculty, and families. They assist our diverse community in navigating academic, personal, and social challenges through support, advocacy, and accountability. They pride themselves in being an office where the community can come and get answers to their questions, solutions to their problems, or effective referrals to other offices or professionals when needed. Location: Campus Center, 4th Floor Email: dean.students@umb.edu Phone: 617-287-5800 Emergency Counseling | The Counseling Center provides consultation, assessment, crisis intervention, focused therapy, education/outreach, and referral assistance for mental health symptoms and concerns. Location: Quinn Administration Building, 2nd Floor Phone: 617-287-5690 Food Insecurity | The mission of U-ACCESS is to help UMass Boston students meet their basic needs so they can achieve academic success. This office also provides leadership development and inspires student agency in mitigating systemic poverty. Along with various services to fulfill student needs, the office provides students with work and internship opportunities to empower them to fight campus poverty and support their peers. Location: Campus Center, 2nd Floor, Suite 2401 Email: U-Access@umb.edu Finding Off-Campus Housing | The office of Off-Campus Living is a well-informed team of staff who advocates for a positive off-campus living experience and social development of our diverse student body. They support and nurture students by providing education about living off-campus while empowering students to become responsible tenants and engaged community members. Location: Campus Center, 3rd Floor, Suite 3300 Email: offcampus@umb.edu Phone: 617-287-6373 Refer a Friend in Crisis | Disclaimer: This form is not for emergencies, if there is an immediate risk to the person of concern or others, please call the UMB Department of Public Safety at 617-287-1212 or 911 from a campus phone. This form is for the use of current students, faculty, or staff from the University of Massachusetts Boston. Please provide detailed information regarding the concern you are reporting. Intimate Partner Violence Support | They envision a world where all relationships are positive, healthy, and free from violence. They answer the call to support and shift power back to those affected by relationship abuse. At the Hotline, we know that domestic violence can affect anyone – including men. Although they make up a smaller percentage of callers to the Hotline, there are likely many more men who do not report or seek help for their abuse. You can visit their website or call 800-799-7233. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms