Publications Presentations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Institute for New England Native American Studies Publications Presentations Menu menu Menu Institute Staff Overview Publications Presentations Resources Publications & Presentations March 2021 Director of the Institute for New England Native American Studies, Cedric Woods, and Professor of Sustainability and Food Solutions, Michael Tlusty, co-author A Transformations Transect as Social Innovation: COBALT Network Forms in the Gulf of Maine to Develop the Concept , published in Social Innovations Journal. The article explores a new research network known as COBALT (Collaborative for Bioregional Action and Learning Transformation) and its use of new Transformation Transect as a response to the complex array of issues, such as social inequity; rural-urban divide; disruption of food systems, and supply chains; disintegration of natural ecosystems; and climate change, which have been demonstrated as interrelated by the global pandemic. May 2019 Professor J. Cedric Woods, the director of INENAS, contributed to the new Boston Indicators Report , which highlights demographic changes in Boston over the last three decades. Read the UMass Boston news story about the report and its significance. September 2017 Westport, MA celebrated the life of Paul Cuffe , a mixed-race entrepreneur and activist from the early 1800s. Professor Woods talked about Cuffe's Native heritage and his vision for ending the African slave trade of that era. February 2017 Professor Woods of INENAS wrote a blog post about how Native communities are recovering in the wake of Hurricane Matthew . December 2016 Chronicle, a show on Boston's ABC affiliate station, aired a series of segments about Native Americans , focusing on activism and the Dakota Access Pipeline. Professor Woods of INENAS was interviewed in the first segment. February 2016 We're working with Harvard University , Yale University , and the Massachusetts Archives to choose and transcribe documents on Native American life in New England from the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries. Read more about this project. January 2016 Statewide listening sessions examine quality of life for Native peoples in Massachusetts. Read the article in Cultural Survival Quarterly. Professor Cedric Woods is quoted in the Tewksbury Advocate about the debate around changing the name of their high school mascot, the Redmen. November 2015 Professor Cedric Woods from INENAS participated in an interview about indigenous law. Watch the video. April 2015 Identifying Postpartum Intervention Approaches to Reduce Cardiometabolic Risk Among American Indian Women with Prior Gestational Diabetes, Oklahoma, 2012-2013. In Preventing Chronic Disease . January 2012 "Native Tribal Scholars: Building an Academic Community," The New England Journal of Higher Education , January 23, 2012. Institute for New England Native American Studies Bayside, 4th Floor 150 Mt. Vernon St. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5784 Connect Follow us on Facebook Read our blog Contact Us Cedric Woods Director Cedric.Woods@umb.edu 617.287.5784 This institute is part of the College of Education and Human Development. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms