Publications - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Institute for Asian American Studies Publications Menu menu Menu About Census Publications Journal Articles Newsletters Research Publications Many of the publications by our staff and affiliates are downloadable from ScholarWorks , a digital repository for articles and other works by UMass Boston faculty, staff, researchers, and students. We provide links to other work when possible. Please contact us if you need assistance in locating one of our publications. Recent publications and reports by IAAS staff: Chinese Laundries in Massachusetts: An Oral History Project Institute for Asian American Studies Shauna Lo Produced in partnership with the Chinese Historical Society of New England, the collection of oral histories features the stories of Chinese Americans who owned laundries or whose parents and relatives owned laundries from the 1930s to the 1990s. September 2023/186 pages Voices that Matter: Boston Area Residents of Color Discuss Climate Change Sustainable Solutions Lab Lorena M. Estrada-Martinez, Paul Y. Watanabe, and Katsyris Rivera-Kientz As a follow-up to a survey of over 900 Boston area residents asking opinions about climate change, this report presents the results of focus groups with 70 of Greater Boston’s Asian American, Black, Latino, and Native American residents of color discussing ideas, thoughts, and fears about climate change. The Institute for Asian American Studies was a partner in this study. December 2022/30 pages "Glass Ceiling" for Asian American Professionals Persists in Massachusetts Institute for Asian American Studies Shauna Lo This research note uses data from the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission to examine the representation of Asian Americans in managerial positions in private industry in Massachusetts. Data is presented for all sectors overall, and in the professional, scientific and technical services; health care and social assistance, and manufacturing and information sectors for Asian Americans as well other racial and ethnic groups. September 2022/7 pages On the Rise: Asian American Women Elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy and Institute for Asian American Studies Katie Mai; Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy; and Institute for Asian American Studies This joint publication from CWPPP and IAAS tells the stories of the first five Asian American women elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives, beginning with Keiko Orrall in 2011. Also profiled are Vanna Howard, Tram Nguyen, and Erika Uyterhoeven, and Maria Robinson. The first author, Katie Mai, is a UMass Boston alumna. August 2022/18 pages Asian Americans in Massachusetts including Boston and Other Selected Cities: Data from the 2020 Decennial Census and American Community Survey Institute for Asian American Studies Shauna Lo This report presents population data from the 2020 Decennial Census (redistricting data only); and socioeconomic data from multiple American Community Survey datasets for Asian Americans as well as for Chinese, Indian, Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Korean Americans in the state. Many of the tables also provide comparative data on White non-Hispanics, Blacks and African Americans, and Latinos. Includes sections for selected cities including Boston, Lowell, Quincy, Malden, and Worcester. May 2022/37 pages Census Report Addendum June 2024 Asian Americans and the Covid-19 Pandemic: A Multi-Lingual Survey in Greater Boston Institute for Asian American Studies Carolyn Wong and Ziting Kuang This survey examined the health, economic, and social impacts of the pandemic on Asian Americans in the Greater Boston area. The study prioritized recruitment of Chinese, Vietnamese, and South Asians with limited income and English proficiency who are often underrepresented in general surveys. Recommendations for Massachusetts lawmakers and agencies responsible for public health, economic and social services, and racial equity are presented at the end. April 2022/33 pages Excerpts of Asian Americans and the Covid-19 Pandemic in Vietnamese . Excerpts of Asian Americans and the Covid-19 Pandemic in Chinese . Institute for Asian American Studies Healey Library 10-7 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125-3393 asianaminst@umb.edu 617.287.5650 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms