Mehr.Latif - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Mehr.Latif Mehr Latif Department: Confl Res, Hum Sec & Globl Gov Title: Assistant Professor Send Email Website Biography Mehr Latif is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Global Governance. Her research centers on understanding social transformation at the individual, group, and wider structural levels. She contributes to the study of radicalization in the United States, exploring cognitive and emotional theories to understand pathways into and out of white supremacy. Her research on micro dynamics of political participation provides insights into alternate public spheres, the development of state boundaries, and how people experience the state in South Asia. Finally, she has contributed to the study of social accountability frameworks and citizenship, and advises international development agencies on programs and interventions around the world. Prior to UMB, she was a Post-doctoral associate at the University of Pittsburgh, and before that worked for over a decade with international non-profits, principally The Asia Foundation. Area of Expertise Political sociology, radicalization, white supremacy, emotions, public sphere, citizenship, civic engagement, state formation, nonprofits, qualitative methods. Degrees PhD, University of Pittsburgh, 2017 MA, University of Pittsburgh, 2013 MA, Johns Hopkins University, 2004 BA, Grinnell College, 2000 Professional Publications & Contributions Journal Articles Latif, Mehr, Pete Simi, Kathleen Blee, and Matthew DeMichele. 2023. “ Intuitive Pathways to Racist Beliefs .” > Emotions and Society 5(3): 348-365. Latif, Mehr. 2022. “ Negotiating the State: The Construction of Local-State Boundaries in Pakistan .” International Journal of Politics, Culture, and Society 36(4): 527-550. Latif, Mehr. 2022. “ Performances and Politics in Pakistan: A Case-Study of a Micro Public Sphere .” International Journal of Politics, Culture, and Society 36: (99-117). Latif, Mehr, Kathleen Blee, Matthew DeMichele, and Pete Simi. 2020. “ Do White Supremacist Women Adopt Movement Archetypes of Mother, Whore, and Fighter? ” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism 46(4): 415-432 Latif, Mehr, Kathleen Blee, Matthew DeMichele, Pete Simi, and Shayna Alexander. 2019. “ Why White Supremacist Women Become Disillusioned, and Why They Leave .” Sociological Quarterly 61(3): 367-388. Latif, Mehr, Kathleen Blee, Matthew DeMichele, and Pete Simi. 2018. “ How Emotional Dynamics Maintain and Destroy White Supremacist Groups .” Humanities & Society 42(4): 480–501. Blee, Kathleen, Matthew DeMichele, Pete Simi, and Mehr Latif. 2017. “ How Racial Violence is Provoked and Channeled .” Socio . 7: 257-276. Book Reviews Latif, Mehr. 2022. Review of Grandmothers on Guard: Gender, Aging, and the Minutemen at the US-Mexico Border by Jennifer L. Johnson. Mobilization. Book Chapters Blee, Kathleen and Mehr Latif. 2021. “The Sociology of the Far Right,” In Stephen Ashe, Joel Busher, Graham Macklin, and Aaron Winter (eds.), Researching the Far Right: Theory, Method and Practice . London: Routledge Series on Fascism and the Far Right. Blee, Kathleen and Mehr Latif. 2019. “Ku Klux Klan – Vigilantism against Migrants and Minorities.” In Tore Bjorgo, ed. Vigilantism Against Minorities & Migrants . London: Routledge. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms