Recognizing Excellence - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Recognizing Excellence Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Books Published Distinguished Alumni Our Fulbright Scholars Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs Recognizing Excellence Our Fulbright Scholars The U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs administers the Fulbright Program under policy guidelines established by the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board and in cooperation with bi-national Fulbright Commissions and the Public Affairs Sections of U.S. embassies abroad; its U.S. Student Program is the largest U.S. exchange program offering opportunities for students and young professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and primary and secondary school teaching worldwide. Books and Creative Works Published The UMass Boston faculty are dedicated to research, innovation, scholarship, and creativity that yields vital contributions in all major areas of human concern both locally and globally. Each year our faculty make new inroads in their respective fields that set new standards of transdisciplinary scholarship. They advance human knowledge in areas such as education and human development, the liberal arts, the health sciences, policy and global studies, and science and mathematics. And since approximately September 2012, the faculty have continued their outstanding contributions to these fields with the publication of more than 70 books and creative works. Visit Distinguished Alumni UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms