Tuition & Fee Waivers - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Bursar Tuition & Fees Tuition & Fee Waivers Menu menu Menu Plan to Pay Financial Responsibility Agreement Tuition & Fees Regular Session Tuition & Fees Special Price Program Tuition Fees Tuition & Fee Waivers New Pricing Structure Effective Fall 2022 Description of Regular Session Tuition & Fees Payment Information Student Refunds Health Insurance Bookstore Advance Student Tax Information Forms Assistance Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Tuition & Fee Waivers Waivers (also known as “ tuition credits ” in some cases) of mandatory tuition and fees are approved by the Legislature, Board of Higher Education, or the University of Massachusetts Board of Trustees. Other waivers may be approved by the University of Massachusetts President’s Office.  Waivers of Continuing Education program fees may be set by the campus.  Details of specific waivers approved by these bodies may be found on the specific agency’s web site.    A list of all waivers available to UMB students is forthcoming on this page. The application of waivers is restricted to one per student per semester. Any student who may be eligible for multiple waivers will be granted the one with the most beneficial impact to the student. Employee Waivers: The following schedule outlines waivers granted to UMass Boston and UMass System employees and their families for-credit bearing course tuition and fees. Campus employee waiver forms must be received in Human Resources by the course add/drop date. Forms submitted by other campus Human Resource Offices must also be received in the Bursar’s Office by the course add/drop date. Employees who submit their form late will be responsible for late fees imposed by the Bursar. University Employee Waivers Commonwealth of Massachusetts Approved Waiver Programs: The following schedule outlines Waivers (also known as “tuition credits” in some cases) of mandatory tuition and fees approved by the Legislature. Forms for these programs should be submitted to the Bursar’s Office before the course add/drop date. State Approved Waiver Programs Waiver Programs Based on Contractual Obligations The following waiver programs are the result of contractual agreements and are implemented based on the contract in place during the course semester. Graduate Assistantships (GEO Contract) National Guard DCF Adopted & Foster Child Continuing Education Program Fee Waivers Please visit Continuing and Professional Studies (CAPS) for non-credit course rates Connect Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 STUDENT INQUIRIES Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday: 10:00 am to 4:00 pm Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing. TELLER HOURS (Student Payments & Departmental Deposits) Monday – Friday: 8:30 am – 4:00 pm INTERNAL BUSINESS FOR UMB DEPARTMENTS Phone: Contact the Bursar Office staff directly or email BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday 8:30 am to 4:00 pm Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms