Facts & Figures - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home About Facts & Figures Menu menu Menu Leadership & Administration Mission Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information The Future of UMass Boston UMass Boston is moving forward with a 25-year master plan that will create an environmentally sustainable and pedestrian-friendly campus. With new buildings and scenic walkways creating a greener, more inviting campus, and with growing academic and research capabilities, UMass Boston will continue to break new ground as Boston’s public research university. Integrated Sciences Complex This 220,000–square-foot building is home to researchers looking at things such as infertility and cancer. University Hall This 190,000–square-foot building features specialized chemistry labs and art and performing arts spaces, including a black box theatre. Academic Recognition The School for the Environment , the School for Global Inclusion and Social Development , and the Honors College build on longstanding UMass Boston values. UMass Boston’s graduate programs in clinical psychology, education, nursing, and public affairs ranked as top 100 programs on U.S. News & World Report ’s 2022 Best Graduate Schools list. UMass Boston’s online graduate education programs jumped 19 spots in U.S. News & World Report ’s 2020 Best Online Programs rankings. The online graduate education programs were ranked No. 35, up from No. 54 in 2019. UMass Boston has four online undergraduate programs. Collectively, those were ranked No. 93 on the list of Best Online Bachelor’s Programs. In 2019, Forbes ranked UMass Boston No. 247 in its fourth annual ranking of the 300 Best Value Colleges . In 2018, U.S. News & World Report ranked the University of Massachusetts Boston in the first tier of national universities for the third year in a row. The Princeton Review named UMass Boston as one of its “Best in the Northeast” colleges. The Princeton Review named UMass Boston’s College of Management one of the Best Business Schools . The College of Nursing and Health Sciences is the ninth-largest nursing school in the country. Pioneering PhD Programs UMass Boston is home to 30 doctoral programs . In keeping with UMass Boston's environmental consciousness, we launched the nation's first Green Chemistry PhD program in 2004. Our Gerontology PhD program has produced more gerontology PhDs than any university in the world. Research & Innovation Our areas of expertise include the biomedical, health, and life sciences ; sustainability ; and inclusion . Among our prestigious research partners are the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center, IBM, Sanofi and Genzyme, New England Aquarium, and the Boston Public Schools. UMass Boston's Venture Development Center has helped launch 35 cutting-edge technology and life sciences startup enterprises. Institutes & Centers The more than 50 interdisciplinary research institutes and centers at UMass Boston bring faculty and students together to pursue research, teaching, and service on diverse topics. The Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy provides a means for undergraduate and graduate students to become the next generation of well-trained biomedical workforce talent and the future leaders of life sciences research in academia and industry. UMass Boston is one of only two universities in the country with free-standing research institutes dedicated to four major communities of color in the U.S.—African American, Asian American, Latino, and Native American—through its Collaborative of Asian American, Native American, Latino and African American Institutes (CANALA). About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city’s history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public research university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 207 undergraduate, graduate, and certificate programs, offered through its 8 colleges and schools, serve more than 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. Source: Office of Institutional Research, Assessment, and Planning UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms