Academic Internship Request Form - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Business Student Resources Academic Internship Request Form Menu menu Menu Message from the Dean Student Resources Undergraduate Prospective Students Academic Departments Faculty & Staff Research & Impact BEST Boston Academic Internship Request Form Use this form to register for AF 480, MKT 480, MGT 480, or MSIS 480. Course Prerequisites: - Enrollment in the College of Management at UMass Boston - Minimum UMass Boston GPA of 2.50 - Completion of 75 credits before the course begins - Completion of 21 credits in the Management foundation and core - Completion of one concentration/track course - Internship position Before submitting this form, you must secure an internship for the term in which you plan to take this course (fall, spring, or summer).  If you need assistance finding an internship, please consult with the Director of Career Services in the College of Management, Patrick Nelson (McCormack Hall suite 610) or the Academic and Career Engagement and Success (ACES) Center in SEAS (Campus Center suite 1100). Your internship position will be reviewed by career advising staff in the College and will determine which section of this course (AF, MGT, MKT or MSIS) you will be eligible to take.  Please be aware that the nature of the internship determines which section you will be in, not your major or concentration. The beginning of this course should align as closely as possible with the start of your internship and you must be participating in the internship while in this course. There are various components of the course that require input from your internship supervisor, which makes this overlap necessary. You cannot complete an internship and then later take this course.  You cannot use your regular job to qualify for this course.  If you have any questions about the registration requirements or process, please contact your academic advisor. This form is for use by College of Management undergraduate students only. If this is not you, please consult with your college, major department, or the Academic and Career Engagement and Success (ACES) Center about how you may receive credit for an internship. This form will be back online next semester. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms