Jumpstart - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Student Leadership & Community Engagement Jumpstart Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities Government Student Leadership & Community Engagement About Us Anti Racism Resources Beacon Awards Beacon Voyages For Service Black Community Engagement Series Civic Action Fellowship Community Faculty Firstyear Leadership Institute Grow Jumpstart Leadership Foundations Community Engagement Initiatives Student Testimonials StrongWomen Media Student Arts & Events Council Student Activities Welcome Week The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Jumpstart Come support the language, literacy and social development of preschoolers from low-income communities in Dorchester. At Jumpstart, we know that every child is born with the potential to succeed in school and in life. We also know that the foundation for that success is established in the early years, before a child enters kindergarten. Jumpstart recruits college students to work for one academic year on teams of fellow students to support the language, literacy and social-emotional development of preschoolers from low income communities. Now is your chance to make a difference in the life of a child!  Students who join Jumpstart will be trained to work with preschool children for a full year to help prepare them for success in school and in life. Jumpstart Corps members serve two afternoons per week in a local preschool with a team of fellow students.  Each Corps member is paired with two or three preschoolers to support their language, literacy and social-emotional development. Corps members must commit to one academic year (2 consecutive semesters) of service, working an average of 10-15 hours a week. Why should you join? Earn Federal Work Study Earn a $1,195 AmeriCorps Education Award Optional Service Learning Class Psych students can earn Capstone and Field Placement credit Pathway to Early Education & Care Certification Schedule 12-15 hours/weekly Sept – May M/W  or T/TH  3 hours blocks (TBA) Plus additional hours of  classroom service Interested in being a part of Jumpstart? Apply to Jumpstart Stay up to date with volunteer opportunities. Like UMass Boston Jumpstart on Facebook UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms