3D Printing Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Printing Resources Menu menu Menu 3D Printing 3D Printing Resources Other Area Makerspaces About Us Contact Us 3D Printing Resources 3D Printers aren’t appliances (yet!) You have to understand how they work, learn new things, follow the news, and ask for help. Below are a few resources we’ve found for you to start learning more about 3D Printing. Ender 3 Documentation Getting into 3D printing and learning how the machines work and how they are used can be tricky to wrap your head around. We have created documentation on the most common aspects of working and using 3D printers, including general usage manuals as well as part replacement and troubleshooting instructions for parts. This link not only includes 3D printer manuals, but general maker space and 3D printing good-to-know info, such as a glossary of terms, types of filament, and more! Check out our 3D Printing Guides Maker’s Muse 3D Printing 101 3D Printing 101 YouTube Playlist – This collection of YouTube videos is a fantastic resource full of lots of tips and tricks about becoming a 3D Printing expert. The $500 MakerSpace Project – A video series on to create a fairly comprehensive MakerSpace for under $500! CAD for Newbies – This series of videos shows a lot of tips about using Fusion 360 and other applications to create 3D designs for 3D printing. Fusion 360, like most Autodesk software, is free for educational users! Maker’s Muse Courses and eBooks – The above video playlists were created by Angus Deveson of MakersMuse.com. This page and his whole website is a great resource. Slant 3D's "How-to Design for Mass Production 3D Printing" This Youtube channel is made by one of the world's largest mass-production 3D Printing farms, Slant 3D . It is a collection of short videos they've created teaching lessons they've learned about designing for mass production 3D Printing, but the insights they share are really fantastic for even one-off prints. Some really smart ideas in here to give a professional, commercial polish to your designs and prints. Slant 3D's "How-to Design for Mass Production 3D Printing" 3D Printing Glossary Like any technology, 3D Printing has its own vocabulary that you need to be familiar with. HP Tech Takes - 3D Printing Glossary (Thank you to the members of Lyndhurst STEM Club for Girls for sharing this great resource! Keep Making!) Online User Groups Just like the early days of the Personal Computer, participating in user groups is an important part of staying up to date with how the technology works. Below are a few you might check out. It's also highly advisable that, in addition to general-topic groups below, you specifically find and participate in the groups which are focused on the specific printer that you use. Google 3D Printing Tips, Tricks and Reviews Google Group Facebook 3D Printing Facebook Group More 3D Printing Facebook Groups 3D Modeling and Design Facebook Group More 3D Design Facebook Groups Reddit 3D Printing Subreddit Functional 3D Prints Subreddit 3D Design Subreddit Discord 3D Printing - Discord More 3D Printing Discord groups Podcasts 3D Printing Today Podcast WTFFF!? 3D Printing Podcast Makers On Tap Podcast Got something to add? Contact us ! UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms