- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Chancellor Greets Cabo Verde President José Maria Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Chancellor Greets Cabo Verde President José Maria Neves for Annual MLK Jr., Amilcar Cabral Commemorative Program 04/05/2023 |
    Office of Communications Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco greeted and welcomed the Honorable José Maria Neves, president of Cabo Verde, before the annual Martin Luther King Jr. and Amilcar Cabral Commemorative Program at the Campus Center Tuesday. Image By: Javier Rivas In his recorded welcome remarks , Chancellor Suárez-Orozco offered thoughts on the importance of civil rights icon Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Amilcar Cabral, pan-Africanist and founder of the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde. “In commemorating the legacies of these towering historical figures, it is inspiring and instructive to reflect on the scale of the challenges they took on,” Suárez-Orozco said. “For Dr. King, it was about living in the moral moment – serving humankind, moving citizens to action, and working toward the America we dream of. And for Amilcar Cabral, it was about challenging the economic and political dominance of colonial powers, on the African continent and around the world. “For both, their words and deeds cultivated belief in the idea that all human beings had agency and dignity. For Africans and African Americans and, indeed for people of good will the world over, this was exhilarating, liberating and long overdue,” he said. The event—organized by Dr. Jemadari Kamara and the Africana Studies Department, and supported and sponsored by the Offices of the Chancellor, Provost, and Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs—was held to commemorate the 55 th and 50 th assassinations of King and Cabral, and included a keynote address by esteemed journalist and author Charlayne Hunter-Gault. During his remarks , Neves praised the university for its programs focused on Cabo Verde and its and its support for Cabo Verdean students. “I greet you all today with great friendship and the warmth of the islands of Cape Verde,” he said. “I come from far away, but I wanted to be with you here today. I must tell you, that for me, it is an honor and privilege to participate in this annual event that commemorates Martin Luther King, Jr. and Amilcar Cabral.” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms