- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2022 UMass Boston Launches New Brand Campaign for a New Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Launches New Brand Campaign for a New Era in Higher Education 04/25/2022 |
    Office of Communications Updated Visual Identity Will Highlight UMass Boston’s Value “ This is a pivotal moment for UMass Boston. ” The University of Massachusetts Boston today launches a new brand and marketing platform aimed at telling its story and updating the university’s visual identity to reflect its unique and increasingly important place in the Commonwealth as a source of academic and research excellence, upward mobility, and social enlightenment and leadership. UMass Boston represents the demographic future of higher education. It is an engine for upward mobility for students and economic growth for Boston and the region, fueled by the excellence of its teaching and research faculty. It is the most diverse public university in New England, with a student body that is 60 percent first-generation. And it promotes a culture of respect and curiosity for the differences among its community. “Today, we share UMass Boston’s story and endow our distinction with a renewed commitment to our legacy of excellence and a new look to better reflect who we are and what we aspire to be,” said Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco . “This is a pivotal moment for UMass Boston.” “Inspired by a vision of tomorrow’s UMass Boston —scanning the horizon of local and global challenges, marshaling research and teaching expertise, and pioneering solutions -- we are a university for the times ,” he said. Watch Video UMass Boston’s story began with its founding in the 1960s, a time of civic and political unrest that nurtured an ardent social conscience at UMass Boston. It was founded as the first public university in Boston, with a mission to “stand with the city” and provide high-quality, accessible higher education. Today, the university continues to be closely aligned with the priorities of the city and region in areas of research and discovery, from climate change and sea-level rise to biotechnology and data science. UMass Boston is an important economic catalyst, providing Boston with a diverse workforce pipeline, across sectors and industries, with highly trained workers that attract innovative companies, which recruit more skilled workers, and keep graduates in the Commonwealth. “At UMass Boston, we democratize education,” said Suárez-Orozco. “It is where our students rise to meet the challenges of today and tomorrow and prepare for lives of consequence. It is where they expand the knowable world and realize flights of imagination. We continue to rise in the ranks of the nation’s leading public research universities, affirming our reputation as a leader in producing groundbreaking research and scholarship that moves the world forward.” UMass Boston’s enhanced visual identity will include a new brand mark that highlights the university’s connection to Boston and its mission and service as a beacon in urban higher education. The new visual identity will be highlighted in multiple marketing platforms, including billboards, broadcast, social and print media. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms