Premedical Enrichment Programs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Student Success Center Pre Med Premedical Enrichment Programs Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Research Student Success Center Math Placement Academic Support Degree Planning Meet With Your Advisor Faculty Resources First Year STEM Communities Pre Med MCAT Preparation Pre Health Student Organizations Premedical Enrichment Programs Premedical Volunteer Opportunities Career & Research Opportunities Purposeful Pathways Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Pre-Medical Enrichment Programs Tufts University School of Medicine - UMass Boston Pre-Medical Enrichment Program Each January, approximately twenty-four of our pre-medical students spend three weeks at the Tufts University School of Medicine as part of an enrichment program designed to introduce future doctors and scholars to the kind of teamwork inherent in medical problem-solving . Students participate in seminars, gain valuable medical research experience, and build connections that will foster their development as graduate-level researchers and clinicians. For more information, please visit TUSM-UMass Boston Program website . To view a powerpoint for the Pathway to PhD (P2P) track, please click here . Click here to read about the 2017 program cohort Click here to read about the first program cohort Here are some soundbites from past participants: "It was clear that the medical students and faculty at Tufts dedicated themselves to giving us valuable insight into prospective careers. Personally, I already set my ambitions towards an MD by the time I entered the program, but my experience at Tufts had only strengthened and motivated me to achieve that goal." - Tareq K., 2014 " Everyone at Tufts was very helpful and they are amazing professionals.  This program opened my mind to possibilities within Biomedical research that I could not have imagined before. ” – Carina R., 2013 Read Carina's op-ed on International Collaboration in Stem Cell Research . " I was delighted to find that the student mentors know how to balance their academic and social lives, and the professors are engaging and extremely fun.  Also, the fact that you're exposed to so many different areas in medicine is comforting because you can find yourself at home in a certain specialty. ” – Yuna F., 2013 Read Yuna's op-ed, " Traffic Jam, " about HIV. “This wasn't a typical shadowing experience!  They tried to involve us and we even got to interact with the patients as much as we wanted at the Sharewood Clinic, which is run by medical students and doctors. We were really allowed to experience what it was like to be a medical student.” – Kristina D., 2013 Read Kristina's op-ed, " The Promise of Personalized Medicine. " UMass Baccalaureate MD (BaccMD) Pathway Program During the 2013 academic year four UMass Boston students were admitted into the first cohort of the UMass Baccalaureate MD (BaccMD) Pathway Program, which creates a pathway from the University of Massachusetts system’s undergraduate campuses to the School of Medicine in Worcester. Students who are from racial or ethnic groups underrepresented in medicine nationally and in Massachusetts, who come from economically disadvantaged backgrounds, or are First Generation College graduates are eligible to apply to become medical scholars their sophomore year. The BaccMD Program offers students to a broad range of academic and clinical immersion opportunities, including book clubs, academic and clinical immersion interactions with physicians and medical students, and observations at clinical sites at UMass Memorial Medical Center. Information on requirements, the application process, and the application link is on the UMass Medical website . Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms