Critical & Creative Thinking MA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Critical & Creative Thinking MA Home Academics Majors & Programs Critical & Creative Thinking MA Request Info Loading... Develop the knowledge, skills, tools, and experience you need to make effective changes in education, work, social movements, science, or the arts. UMass Boston’s Critical and Creative Thinking MA was ranked as one of the Best Online Graduate Education Programs by U.S. News & World Report. This program focuses on learning and applying ideas and tools in critical thinking, creative thinking, and reflective practice. It’s designed for students from a wide array of professions and endeavors looking for personal and professional development to develop clarity and confidence to become constructive, reflective agents of change in education, work, social movements and activism, science, and creative arts. You’ll experiment and take risks as you apply what you’re learning in the classroom to real-world situations, reflect on these outcomes and revise accordingly, and build a set of tools, practices, and perspectives that work in your specific professional and personal endeavors. Apply these skills to virtually any field — from education to policy making to the arts. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Undergraduate Transcripts: The CCT program looks for a generally distinguished undergraduate transcript with an average of at least 3.0 in advanced undergraduate work. For students with a strong record of accomplishment in other areas, the admissions committee will recommend provisional admission with the stipulation that the student completes two courses in the program with a course grade of B+ or better. Because of the interdisciplinary nature of the program, we do not require that you come from any specific program of study. Letters of Recommendation: Three letters are required from people who have worked closely with you and who have direct knowledge of your abilities. The people you ask to recommend you should be able to comment in detail about your academic strengths, work experience, or life experience. Statement of Interest and Intent: The program’s admissions requirements call for an essay of at least 1200 words in which you explain your intellectual, artistic, professional or personal reasons for wanting to pursue a degree in critical thinking, creative thinking, and reflective practice. Your essay should include specific accounts of your past work and current direction. You should provide a detailed discussion of your specific interests and priorities as a student, the projects you have completed in the past, the problems and topics you want to focus on in future study, and how and why you believe the CCT degree can help you accomplish your goals. The admissions committee will read your essay as a demonstration of how you write and how you think about issues, as well as determine if your interests and goals match those of the program. Test Scores: GRE scores are optional. Accelerated BA/BS-MA program: This follows the established model of starting graduate courses as a 2nd semester junior, approval of a regular application for graduate program admission, completion of all undergraduate requirements in fewer credits (107 instead of 120), and a 5th year of graduate courses only. Applications welcome from all undergraduate majors in Honors and College of Liberal Arts. Learn more about the Accelerated Master's Program. Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Foundation Courses (6 Credits) Complete both courses below. CRCRTH 601 - Critical Thinking, 3 Credits CRCRTH 602 - Creative Thinking, 3 Credits Mediation, Dialogue & Collaboration (3 Credits) Complete one course from the options below. CRCRTH 616 - Dialogue Processes, 3 Credits CRCRTH 618 - Creative Thinking, Collaboration, and Organizational Change, 3 Credits Urban & Social Justice Education (3 Credits) Complete one course from the options below. CRCRTH 615 - Holistic and Transformative Teaching, 3 Credits CRCRTH 627 - Issues and Controversies in Antiracist and Multicultural Education, 3 Credits Electives (12 Credits) Complete any four courses from the options below. CRCRTH 603 - Foundations of Philosophical Thought, 3 Credits CRCRTH 611 - Seminar in Critical Thinking, 3 Credits CRCRTH 612 - Seminar in Creativity, 3 Credits CRCRTH 630 - Criticism and Creativity in Literature and the Arts, 3 Credits CRCRTH 655 - Metacognition, 3 Credits CRCRTH 651 - Advanced Cognitive Psychology, 3 Credits CRCRTH 670 - Thinking, Learning, and Computers, 3 Credits CRCRTH 688 - Reflective Practice, 3 Credits Research & Writing Courses (9 Credits) Complete all three courses below. CRCRTH 692 - Processes of Research and Engagement, 3 Credits CRCRTH 693 - Action Research for Educational, Professional and Personal Change, 3 Credits CRCRTH 694 - Synthesis of Theory and Practice Seminar, 3 Credits Graduation Criteria Complete 33 credits from eleven courses including four foundation courses, four electives, and three research and writing courses. Concentration: Students may choose a concentration in liberal and interdisciplinary studies or transformative education for their foundation courses. Mid-program check-in: A brief interview with the Graduate Program Director and another faculty member is held at the mid-point of one’s progress through the MA program. Capstone: Completion of a synthesis of one’s insight, learning, and preparedness for change and ongoing development as a result of the program. Abstracts and selected full text syntheses are published on Scholarworks. Exit self-assessment: Completion of a written self-assessment documenting the broad impact of the program on their personal, professional, and educational development by identifying areas of achievement and challenges in relation to two sets of goals: 1) completion of the synthesis project itself, and 2) developing as a “reflective practitioner”. Students may wish to review these goals periodically throughout the program as a prompt in thinking about how to approach upcoming courses as well as reflect upon recent ones. The exit self-assessment goals also provide some framework for thinking about how to write the narrative parts of the Reflective Practice Portfolio. Reflective practice portfolio: Completion of an electronic portfolio of academic work completed over the course of the program. The two main components of the portfolio are the exhibits and the narrative. The exhibits are representative assignments of parts of assignments from all courses taken in the program, and the narrative is a written work that conveys a reflection of one’s development of the exhibits over the long term of the program. Residency: With the approval of the Graduate Program Director, the university allows graduate students to transfer up to 6 credits of graduate work from outside UMass Boston and up to 6 credits of UMass Boston courses taken before matriculating into the program. Grades must be a B or higher, and an official transcript is needed for courses taken outside UMass Boston. Students starting their coursework in the summer do not matriculate until the fall but may submit a pre-matriculation waiver so that all credits taken in the summer count. Statute of limitations: Five years. Contact Graduate Program Director Carol Sharicz carol.sharicz@umb.edu Critical & Creative Thinking Graduate Programs cct@umb.edu Curriculum & Instruction Learn more about UMass Boston's Curriculum & Instruction department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Curriculum & Instruction College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) SARA Compliance, Disclosure & Dispute Resolution UMass Boston programs are designed to meet the requirements for licensure or certification in Massachusetts. Please contact your state licensing or certification board to determine whether the program meets the requirements for licensure or certification in other states. Learn More about SARA UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms