- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 Wheels Brings MicroMobility to UMass Boston and th Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Wheels Brings MicroMobility to UMass Boston and the MBTA 11/10/2021 |
    Office of Communications UMass Boston has partnered with the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) and Wheels, the leading last-mile, shared electric mobility platform, to offer hybrid micromobility devices—popularly referred to as e-bikes—on campus. “ We wanted to offer additional first-last mile solutions to our community that protect the health of our students and employees. ” Wheels launched at UMass Boston on Friday, October 15, and will be available at the MBTA's JFK/UMass station in the coming weeks as a drop-off/pick-up location. This collaboration marks a significant moment in creating a safe, sustainable transportation option in Boston and makes Wheels the only hybrid micromobility device available in the city limits. The devices are located at the West Garage, the ISC, Wheatley Hall, University Hall, the Clark Athletic Circle, and Bayside on campus (visit link here for a map). “We created Wheels to give people a convenient, safe way to get around while beating traffic and limiting environmental impact,” said Marco McCottry , CEO of Wheels. “As in-person activities resume, co-created micromobility solutions like this partnership with UMass Boston and the MBTA will only become more important. This collaboration shows what’s possible for universities and cities across the country, and we couldn’t be more thrilled to help Boston students, employees, and visitors connect the first and last mile between campus and mass transit.” With students and faculty returning to campus after months of remote and hybrid classes, Wheels will supplement the university’s shuttle service and provide an accessible form of sustainable transportation from the MBTA's JFK/UMass station. “With COVID-19’s initial impact, we wanted to offer additional first-last mile solutions to our community members that protect the health of our students and employees,” said Daniel Scavongelli , a transportation demand management coordinator at UMass Boston. “We’re excited to partner with Wheels to give people a safe, affordable, and sustainable option to get around campus so they can focus on gearing up for the school year.” Students, faculty, and staff will have two options for using Wheels at the UMass Boston campus. First, they can sign up for Wheels’ first-ever Semester Pass , which saves students 20 percent, and waives the $1 unlock fee for each ride until the end of the semester. Alternatively, riders can pay as they go ($1 per unlock plus 39 cents per minute). Today’s news comes on the heels of several recent Wheels announcements transforming urban transportation safely and sustainably. Most recently, Wheels launched an exclusive partnership with St. John’s University through E&I Cooperative Services that provided them with a quick and easy way to add micromobility to their campus. In July, Wheels launched in Santa Monica and West Hollywood to give residents and tourists an end-to-end micromobility option across Los Angeles. To learn more, including safety tips, visit: http://takewheels.com/umb In addition to Wheels, UMass Boston's sustainable transit features include shuttle buses, discounted transit passes, cars and fleet on demand, alternative commuting rewards program, and a bike-sharing program. Learn more about all the university's sustainable transit features at www.umb.edu/the_university/getting_here . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms