Development - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Microcredentials Development Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Planning Development Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Microcredential Development Process Once a topic has been identified and approval obtained by the appropriate college/unit administrator, the development of the microcredential course can begin, in partnership with Learning Design Services. Guidance for Course & Learning Experience Design Listed below are some steps to help you plan for designing and building the learning experience for the microcredential course or training program. Meet with Learning Design Meet with the designated learning designer from Learning Design Services for a preliminary consultation to begin planning your course with the recommended best practices and to get started with the resources available. Book a consult now Define the Learning Outcomes Use the Course Mapping worksheet and Bloom’s Taxonomy to develop detailed assessment and outcome plans. Lay out the course objectives, define the measurable learning objectives for each learning unit and design the necessary assessments for the microcredential. Consult other frameworks such as Backwards Design , Design Thinking , and the OSCQR Rubric to ensure a learner-centric experience. Course Mapping Worksheet Plan the Assessment Methods Plan for assessment methods that accurately evaluate mastery of learning outcomes, drawing from authentic assessment, competency-based and performance-based assessment, to match the rigor of the program. Skills and competencies need to be verifiable. Think about using hands-on projects or simulations relevant to real-world scenarios and other problem-solving exercises. Plan to use rubrics to further outline performance expectations, as well as ensuring fairness and transparency and consistency in the assessment process. Set the Completion Proficiency Level Determine the proficiency level required in the course for the competencies to be achieved and for the microcredential to be awarded. The course grade in Canvas can be used as a trigger for the release of the microcredential. Decide the minimum point or percentage threshold required for the microcredential to be awarded. Other mechanisms may be possible depending on the nature of your program. Learn to use the Canvas LMS Complete the available Canvas LMS training to get equipped with the necessary tools to upload your materials and get acquainted with the communication tools available in the LMS system. While the system that awards the microcredentials is Canvas Credentials, it works in tandem with the Canvas LMS: that’s where learners interact with the content and with the instructor, and it’s Canvas where the learning record is stored and used to trigger the release of the microcredential. Learning designers will provide course design guidance and additional training. Canvas LMS Training Begin Development After your initial consultation with the designated learning designer, please fill out the development form to begin the development process. Book a Consult Now Microcredential Development Form Questions? Reach out to rrezarta.agimi@umb.edu Earn a Microcredential Enroll in the Teaching and Learning Online course on Canvas to learn about teaching online and earn the first microcredential on the UMass Boston Canvas Credentials system. Enroll in the TLO Now UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms