International First-Year Student - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions International Students Apply As a International Student International First-Year Student Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Apply As a International Student International First-Year Student International Transfer Student International Partnerships Resources & Information Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented Apply as an International First-Year If you seek admission to UMass Boston as an international student, we strongly encourage you to apply online by submitting either the UMass Boston Application or the Common Application: UMass Boston Web Application Common Application Please be sure to send us your application and all required materials by the posted international application deadline. If you experience any technical problems with the application, please email us immediately at undergrad.admissions@umb.edu . Deadlines Fall: Early Action I November 1 Fall: Early Action II January 1 Fall: Regular Decision February 15 Spring Semester December 15 International Application Requirements As a prospective international first-year student, you are required to submit all of the following materials in order to be considered for admission: Completed application Application fee: $60 An official high school record, leaving certificate, and/or graduation examination results or their notarized copies. All documents in foreign languages must be translated by a certified professional. Records must be sent directly from the institution to be considered official. For additional country-specific document requirements, please refer to “International Transcripts Requirements” section below. Academic recommendation letter (from a school-based counselor and/or teacher) 500-word essay Test scores All supporting materials should be mailed to: UMass Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Essay Requirement All UMass Boston applicants are asked to submit a personal essay. It gives you the opportunity to present yourself in a way that grades and test scores cannot. Our admissions counselors use your essay to determine your ability to organize your thoughts and express yourself clearly. Your essay may also be used to consider you for the Honors College and/or any scholarship opportunities for which you may qualify. Please select one of the following questions and write an essay of about 500 words: Evaluate a significant experience, achievement, risk you have taken, or ethical dilemma you have faced and its impact on you. Discuss some issue of personal, local, national, or international concern and its importance to you. Indicate a person who has had a significant influence on you, and describe that influence. Describe a character in fiction, a historical figure, or a creative work (as in art, music, science, etc.) that has had an influence on you, and explain that influence. A range of academic interests, personal perspectives, and life experiences adds much to the educational mix. Given your personal background, describe an experience that illustrates what you would bring to the diversity in a college community or an encounter that demonstrated the importance of diversity to you. Some other topic of your choice. SAT / ACT Scores International students can apply under Test Optional plan without SAT/ACT scores. Be sure to select “Test Optional” plan on your application. Students whose native language is not English, and who have not completed an English-based curriculum, will be required to submit proof of English Language proficiency. Please refer to the information provided below regarding English Proficiency. English Proficiency Testing Requirements All non-native speakers of English must demonstrate English language proficiency. Students can demonstrate proficiency by submitting the following exams: TOEFL (79+) IELTS (6.0+) SAT (Evidence Based Reading & Writing (ERWS) component of 480+) ACT (Reading and English component scores totaling 34) Duolingo English Test (105+) UMass Boston must receive your official test scores directly from the testing agency. You may request scores be sent to UMass Boston at the time you register for the test. If you have already taken the test, you may request official scores by contacting the College Board, ACT, TOEFL, IETLS, or Duolingo directly. The UMass Boston SAT/TOEFL and IELTS code is 3924 and the ACT code is 1925. International Transcript Requirements Students who have graduated from high school prior to applying to UMass Boston will be required to submit the following credentials based on the country of education: United Kingdom and other British-modeled curriculum international schools: Cambridge O-level, IGCSE and AS/A – Level certificates France: Final French Baccalaureate Germany: German Abitur Caribbean: Caribbean CSEC/CXC and CAPE Uganda: Uganda Ordinary and Advanced Examination certificate Lebanon: Lebanese Baccalaureate India: Indian Secondary and Higher Secondary Examination Certificate and statement of marks Pakistan: Pakistan Secondary and Intermediate Examination certificates Bangladesh: Bangladesh Secondary and Intermediate Examination certificates Nepal: Nepal Secondary and Intermediate Examination certificates West Africa: West African Examination certificate and detailed scratch card information Ethiopia: Ethiopia General Secondary School Leaving Examination Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Tajikistan: Certificate of Completion of General Secondary Education with marks South Africa: National Examination Certificate Cameroon: Cameroon French Baccalaureate or Cameroon Ordinary and Advanced Level examination certificates Provisional Admission UMass Boston may offer provisional admission to an international undergraduate applicant who meets all of the admission criteria, but whose TOEFL or IELTS results do not meet the minimum requirements. UMass Boston does not offer conditional admission for nursing, engineering, or management applicants. Students provisionally accepted to the university will be referred to the University Preparation ESL program. Obtaining an I-20 Once you have been accepted to the UMass Boston, you will receive detailed instructions from International Student and Scholars Services (ISSS) . They will contact you about submitting documents necessary for I-20 Certificate Eligibility issuance. International Scholarships First year students are automatically considered for UMass Boston merit scholarship aid based on their admissions application. International students with a 3.3 GPA or higher are considered for a merit scholarship of up to $5,000 annually. These scholarships are not available to students entering through partnership programs. Cost of Attendance for International Students Estimated Expenses for the 2023 Academic Year Tuition: $36,145 Fees (including health insurance): $4,929 Living Expenses and Meals: $16,440 Personal Expenses: $800 Total: $58,750 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms