The Collaborative - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Sustainable Solutions Lab The Collaborative Menu menu Menu Research & Impact People The Collaborative Northeast Climate Justice Research Collaborative Launched in the Spring of 2022, the Northeast Climate Justice Research Collaborative (The Collaborative) is a trans-disciplinary network for academic and community researchers in the Northeast. The Collaborative is composed of researchers—whether experienced or just getting started—who are interested in actively working to advance practices and policies that ensure historically excluded communities are safe and healthy despite the changing climate. Through networking, dialogue, funding, and resource-sharing, we support scholars to maximize the benefits of research for the communities they are working with. The Collaborative is convened by the Sustainable Solutions Lab (SSL) at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Join the Collaborative! We welcome all local and regional climate justice researchers — whether you've been doing research in the field for many years or are starting to explore this area of inquiry. Please fill out this interest form to let us know you’d like to join The Collaborative. Goals of the Collaborative: The Collaborative brings together researchers from across many disciplines to: Weave together and develop regional climate justice research networks. Create a supportive community of practice for emerging climate justice researchers, especially those from groups historically underrepresented in the environmental, climate, and sustainability sciences. Enhance the capacity of regional climate justice researchers to bridge Environmental Justice (EJ) communities and regional policy- and decision-makers. How do you define climate justice research? We are committed to research and practice that: Prioritizes the needs and desires of EJ communities in confronting the impacts of climate change. Fully integrates community knowledge and perspectives in climate research, policy, and planning. Network Benefits Joining the Northeast Climate Justice Research Collaborative grants you access to: Seed grants to support climate justice research in the Northeast Workshops to support researchers' ability to leverage their work and make it actionable Collaborative gatherings, convenings, and networking opportunities SSL's climate justice literature Mendeley library The Collaborative listserv for sharing ideas, questions, and resources This initiative received inaugural funding from the Roy J. Zuckerberg Endowed Leadership Award. Contact Us Sustainable Solutions Lab ssl@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms