Students who are Parents or Parents to be - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Dean Of Students Resources for Students Students who are Parents or Parents to be Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Emergency Aid Fund Services for Faculty & Staff Forms Resources for Parents And Families Referral & Complaint Forms Resources for Students Beacon2Beacon Students who are Parents or Parents to be Services for Students Contact Us Student Conduct Process Current Students Resources for Students Who are Parents or Parents to Be Are you Pregnant? While pregnant, you can still participate in classes and co-curricular activities like: Clubs and/or sports Honor Societies Student leadership opportunities You are entitled to: Excused absences due to pregnancy or childbirth Maintain your current academic and co-curricular status Make up and submit any work while absent Explanation of any Title IX requirements Receive the same services provided to students with temporary medical conditions Reasonable adjustments if needed like a larger desk, elevator access, and frequent trips to the restroom. Ask for help Do you need privacy for breastfeeding? There is a room in the Quinn Administration Building dedicated to mothers needing to breastfeed or express breast milk. It is by reservation or as needed if available. There is a sign-up sheet on the door if you wish to reserve a specific time. Be sure to knock before entering and please keep the space neat and clean. The first lactation room is on the Upper Level (UL) of Quinn, through two sets of double doors adjacent to the dining tables in the lobby area. After passing two sets of double doors turn right in the big hallway. The room is located approximately 50 feet ahead on the left, just before the large garage door. It is marked “Mother’s Room.” The second lactation room in the 600 wing (near the fitness center) on the first floor of the McCormack building, Room 01-0611. It is immediately on your right as you enter the 600 wing. It is marked “Lactation Room”. To learn more or request accommodations related to pregnancy and pregnancy related conditions visit the CRTIX page on Pregnant & Parenting Rights or email CRTIX at Civilrights.titleix@umb.edu . Please call or stop by the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX for the key code to enter the room. Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Phone: 617-287-5148 Location: Quinn Administration Building, 3rd Floor Mother’s Rooms Location: McCormack Building, Room 01-0611 (First Floor) Location: Quinn Administration Building, Upper Level (UL) Outside Resources: Pregnant or Parenting? Title IX Protects You From Discrimination At School Title IX Basics at The Pregnant Scholar.org UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms