Center for Social Policy - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Center for Social Policy Home Center for Social Policy Menu menu Menu About Current Projects Elaine Werby Internship Partners Projects Publications And Reports The Center for Social Policy provides expertise on policies and practices to eliminate racial, gender, class, and economic inequities. Boasting a longstanding commitment to community participation and equity, CSP explores the root causes of economic hardship by examining the intersection of public policies and employment in order to inform fundamental changes in policy and service delivery. CSP works in collaboration with constituents, community, and philanthropic partners to generate actionable solutions to complex social challenges to make meaningful and measurable changes to policy and practice. Read blog posts about our work at McCormack Speaks. Learn about our Elaine Werby Internship program here. How much do Massachusetts early education and childcare workers earn? Center for Social Policy University of Massachusetts Boston Healey Library, 10th Floor, Room 12 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone: 617.287.5550 FAX: 617.287.5566 Resources for Journalists: Media Contact at the Center for Social Policy Center for Social Policy Areas of Expertise Fact Sheet Announcements The Center for Social Policy’s applied research and evaluation projects aim to facilitate equitable economic security and mobility. CSP Research Director Dr. Françoise Carré was quoted in the Boston Globe on the implications of low wages in the retail sector. CSP Research Director Dr. Françoise Carré was named 2022 Academic Fellow by the Labor and Employment Relations Association. CSP Director Susan Crandall was the AY22-23 recipient of the McCormack Graduate School Gordon and Betty Moore Oceans Endowment Funds . Open access to our work Join Our Mailing List UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms