- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 U.S. News Says UMass Boston’s Online Graduate Educ Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications U.S. News Says UMass Boston’s Online Graduate Education, Bachelor’s Programs Among Nation’s Best 01/14/2020 |
    Colleen Locke Online Graduate Education Programs Up 19 Spots from 2019 Image By: Marc Occil, On the Ground Photography “ This is just the beginning of a sustained ascent in the rankings of our advanced academic programs. ” UMass Boston’s online graduate education programs have jumped 19 spots in U.S. News & World Report ’s 2020 Best Online Programs rankings, released today. The online graduate education programs are ranked No. 35, up from No. 54 in 2019. UMass Boston has four online undergraduate programs. Collectively, those are ranked No. 93 on the list of Best Online Bachelor’s Programs. “This is just the beginning of a sustained ascent in the rankings of our advanced academic programs, which reflects the quality of the faculty and the excellence of the students,” noted Interim Chancellor Katherine Newman. “Online education is a vital option, especially for mature students and those already in the work world who need the convenience it provides so well.” Through its College of Education and Human Development , UMass Boston offers online master’s programs in topics such as counseling, mental health, instructional design, and vision studies. UMass Boston received a score of 84 (out of 100) for its online graduate education programs. Schools on the Best Online Master’s Education Programs list were scored on engagement, services and technologies, a survey of academic leaders, faculty credentials and training, and student excellence. Services and technologies had a greater weight in the rankings than in 2019 (23 percent compared to 20 percent.) UMass Boston currently offers four online bachelor’s programs: an accelerated bachelor of science in nursing, global aging and life course studies, global affairs, and an RN to BS degree. The nursing programs are offered through the College of Nursing and Health Sciences ; the other two programs are offered through the McCormack Graduate School. U.S. News & World Report gave UMass Boston a score of 75. Schools on the Best Online Bachelor’s Programs list were scored on four categories: engagement, services and technologies, faculty credentials and training, and a survey of academic leaders. Engagement received the most weight (35 percent). This is the fourth year UMass Boston has been recognized for outstanding online programs. You can explore all of UMass Boston’s online programs on the new online.umb.edu . About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms