Services & Facilities - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Services & Facilities Home Environment Beacon Lab Services & Facilities Menu menu Menu Impactful Research Institutes, Centers & Facilities Urban Planning & Community Development Nantucket Field Station Faculty & Staff Beacon Lab People Services & Facilities Student Success & Advising Resources Services, Instruments & Platforms The Beacon Lab boasts a wide range of services, instruments, and platforms that can help inform and drive almost any BlueTech project. From sensor development to sample analysis, the Beacon Lab can utilize our internal assets as well as leverage a myriad of BlueTech, academic, and industry partners. Feel free to reach out to the Beacon Lab for help with any of your ocean-related needs. Read more about some of our services, instruments, and platforms below! Facilities Beacon Lab The heart of the Beacon Lab is our dedicated lab space in the Integrated Science Complex (ISC) at UMass Boston. The lab is a mixed-use facility with space for meetings, online conferencing, powerful computer workstations, and benches for electronics and analytical work. Fox Point Dock The Fox Point Dock is an ADA-compliant dock which is accessible at all tides on the Boston Campus and is available for use. There are enclosed lab spaces on the dock that are available for use allowing students and developers to test technologies in ocean water and provide real-time data to all. In addition, various vessels are available from UMass Boston Marine Operations . Current services via the BEACON LAB Vessel-based acoustic seafloor mapping in waters <1 – 20 m High-resolution 3D Swath Bathymetry: achievable grid cell sizes <10cm High-resolution 2D Sidescan Sonar Imagery: achievable grid cell sizes <5cm Seismic reflection (sub-bottom) profiling (op. freq. 2-16 kHz) Vessels Crewed: UMass Boston Marine Operations Uncrewed: Autonomous Surface Vessels (JetYak) shallow water data collection Particle Size Analysis Particle Size Analysis (PSA) through the Beacon Lab uses state-of-the-art technologies from Microtrac to cover the widest possible range. Analysis procedures can be tailored to best fit a clients needs. Microtrac Camsizer XL (500 μm to 100+ mm) Microtrac Sync (20 nm to 2 mm) Open Image Modal Microtrac Camsizer XL (500 μm to 100+ mm) Open Image Modal Microtrac Sync (20 nm to 2 mm) JetYak being prepped for deployment Beacon Lab Beacon Lab Director Dr. Mark Borrelli mark.borrelli@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms