Student & Language Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Student & Language Resources Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Faculty & Staff Study Abroad Programs Student & Language Resources Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Student & Language Resources from the Modern Languages, Literatures, and Cultures Department Select a resource... Language Assessment & Proficiency Conversation Practice & Clubs Boston Area Resources Information on Language Assessment and Language Proficiency Language Assessments are offered for students to place into a higher level language class or to remove a Language Proficiency requirement. Methods for assessment can include reading, writings, and/or oral competency. Elementary and Intermediate Language Proficiencies are typically required for B.A. seeking students, Honors College, and International Relations majors. Not all students need to satisfy a Proficiency requirement. World Culture/World Language course requirements are different from Language Proficiency and cannot be removed through assessment. Students must complete courses to satisfy this requirement. You can search for courses that satisfy these requirements by using the Course Finder and filtering "General Ed Distribution" for World Cultures or World Languages. For Arabic, Chinese, German, French, Japanese, Italian, Russian, or Vietnamese: Please e-mail our department MLLC@umb.edu to schedule an assessment. We are typically available for assessment Monday-Friday 9:30AM-2:30PM, in McCormack, 4th floor, 233. Looking for Spanish or Portuguese? The Latin American and Iberian Studies Department hosts studies in Spanish and Portuguese. Please contact their department ( LAIS@umb.edu ) to inquire about their assessments. Need to verify Proficiency in another Language? If you are seeking a Language Proficiency in a language that is not currently taught on campus, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Studies: Betsabe.Gomez@umb.edu , visit Campus Center U01-1300, or call 617.287.6330 to make arrangements. Conversation & Student Clubs The Department of Modern Languages, Literatures, and Cultures offers a variety of ways to engage with and learn about cultures across the globe and to practice your language skills. Anyone is welcome to join! Arabic If you are interested in Arabic conversation, please contact mllc@umb.edu and join the Friends of Arabic Studies mailing list . Chinese The Chinese language program offers tutoring. To learn more, contact mllc@umb.edu . French The French Club is hosting a weekly meeting to speak French and discuss a variety of topics pertaining to French or Francophone culture. Join the French Club here . To receive updates about French at UMass Boston, join the French Studies mailing list . German Kaffeeklatsch , the German conversation hour, takes place every week on Tuesday @ 3:30 in the MLLC Conference Room (M04-0214). No matter what your level of German--whether you are a complete beginner or pretty fluent--everyone is welcome! To receive updates and reminders, join the Friends of German Studies mailing list or email german@umb.edu Italian The Italian conversation hour, Caffè italiano , takes place weekly this Fall on Thursdays from 12:30-1:30PM in the MLLC Conference Room (M04-0214). For further information, please contact Professor Carlo Carratelli ( carlo.carratelli@umb.edu ). Japanese The Japanese Book Club takes place every Monday @ 4:00PM in the MLLC Conference Room (M04-0214). Japanese learners of ALL levels are welcome to attend and participate. To learn more, contact Professor Miyuki Yamamoto ( miyuki.yamamoto@umb.edu ). Global Cultures Club The Global Cultures Club offers events and activities related to various different cultures in English. To receive updates and invitations, join the Global Cultures Club mailing list . . Culture in the Community The focus of our "Culture in the Community" page is to provide a list of resources around the Greater Boston Area that promote access to different cultural activities within our own community. Please take note that this list is always open for growth: contact us at MLLC@umb.edu if you have a suggested resource/program that we should add to the list. Arabic Center for Arabic Culture (CAC) Chinese Sampan Bi-Lingual Newspaper French French Cultural Center The Eastern Massachusetts Chapter of the National American Association of Teachers of French (AATF) AATF, Rhode Island chapter Québec Government Office in Boston Alliance Française de Newport Alliance Française de Providence "Bienvenue à Boston" The Massachusetts Lafayette Society Boston Accueil International School of Boston New England Speaks French Education Française-Greater Boston German Goethe-Institute Boston Boylston Schul-Verein German Consulate in Boston German International School of Boston Italian Dante Alighieri Society Professionalisti Italiani a Boston PIB Saturday School Insegnare Italiano nel New England General Consulate of Italy in Boston IAM Books Centro Attività Scolastiche Italiane Japanese Japanese Language School of Greater Boston Japanese Society of Boston Japan Festival Boston Vietnamese VietAID Miscellaneous Schoenhof's Foreign Books Massachusetts Foreign Languages Association The International House of Rhode Island American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms