About - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Facilities About Menu menu Menu About Contact Information Request Services About Us Get Information The Facilities Department oversees the operation and maintenance of multiple building and utility systems, the maintenance of university grounds and roadways and the provision of janitorial and pest control services. In addition, the Facilities Department supports the planning, design, and construction of major renovations and new construction in conjunction with the University of Massachusetts Building Authority and the Commonwealth’s Division of Capital Asset Management. UMass Boston consists of 11 buildings located on Columbia Point (10 on the main campus and the former Bayside Expo Center at 200 Mt. Vernon Street). Between the main campus and the Bayside property, the university occupies more than 120 acres on Columbia Point. Also, the University operates four additional buildings at the Nantucket Field Station on Nantucket. The department works with the Office of Master Planning on master plan-related capital projects and supports the university’s Space Planning and Capital Expenditure (SPACE) Committee. The UMass Boston Facilities Department is committed to: Respect: We are committed to developing mutual respect through soliciting input, active listening and communicating, recognizing diverse points of view, and giving and receiving constructive feedback. Customer Service: We are committed to understanding the needs of the UMass Boston community, communicating effectively, and delivering solutions in a courteous, professional, and timely manner. Collaborative Relationships: We are committed to building strong, successful partnerships within our department, the university, and the community. Stewardship: We are committed to creating and maintaining safe, attractive, and environmentally conscious buildings and grounds. Excellence: We are committed to the highest standards of quality and performance and dedicated to continuous improvement across the department. Effectiveness: We are committed to developing efficient processes and delivering services that are fiscally, operationally, and environmentally responsible with an emphasis on proactive solutions. Employee Development: We are committed to promoting the professional development of our employees' skills and expertise, and to attracting and retaining highly-qualified individuals. Learn the History of UMass Boston Campus Facilities Play video Facilities Department Service and Supply Building Upper Level, Room 001 617.287.5450 Contact Facilities Facilities Department Service and Supply Building Upper Level, Room 001 617-287-5450 Email Facilities UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms