Harborwalk - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Planning & Sustainability Projects Harborwalk Menu menu Menu Campus Master Plan Projects Harborwalk Integrated Sciences Complex Parking Garage West Renovations to Existing Academic Buildings Residence Hall 1 Quad Development University Hall Utility Corridor & Roadway Relocation Sustainability & Resiliency SPACE Committee Maps & Floor Plans HarborWalk UMass Boston's $2.8 million HarborWalk Improvements and Shoreline Stabilization project, a Phase One element of the 25-Year Master Plan , was completed during summer 2015. Shoreline protection included stabilizing the existing edge and eliminating the continued loss of debris (such as concrete and brick) into Boston Harbor. Where? The 800-foot section of the HarborWalk located on university property between the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum and Harbor Point apartments. This section is easily accessed by crossing Mount Vernon Street and following the walk way between the Harbor Point apartments and campus parking Lot D. What? The project, which was completed in 2015, placed 3,200 tons (6.4 million pounds) of stone along the shoreline to stabilize it and created a new paved walkway along the restored shoreline. A significant amount of granite blocks unearthed from the Big Dig was donated by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation. The new stretch features benches, lighting, gathering spaces, native plants, interpretive signs with historical narratives, and an area to display artwork. Why? Enhanced public access and accessibility to the waterfront Improved connections between the campus and the waterfront Restored and protected shoreline segment of this stretch of HarborWalk to prevent further coastal erosion When? Construction took place from summer 2014 through summer 2015. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms