English MA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give English MA Home Academics Majors & Programs English MA Request Info Loading... Deepen your understanding of literature, enliven your writing, and enrich your teaching practice in a stimulating and inclusive intellectual community. UMass Boston's English MA Program is one of the largest liberal arts graduate programs at the university. All of our students and faculty engage with the imaginative worlds that texts create—worlds created and shared by literary authors, professional writers, critical readers, and reflective thinkers. We offer a flexible program of study with four areas of concentration: literature, composition, pedagogy, and creative writing. Students can create an integrated program of study that includes courses from one or all of these areas. We are proud to offer an English MA Program that is: Innovative: You can participate in cutting-edge courses (such as our hands-on rare books seminar at Boston-area archives), unique extracurriculars (such as our Literary Theory Reading Group), and experiential assistantships (such as our graduate teaching and research assistantships). Relevant & Rooted: You can take seminars on topics that capture both the latest trends and long-standing traditions in English Studies. Current course topics include young adult literature, book history, the graphic novel, memoir writing, digital rhetoric, the Harlem Renaissance, multimodal composition, ecocriticism, Arthurian legend, science fiction, and Shakespearean drama, among others. Challenging: Your coursework trains you in advanced reading, writing, research, and teaching methods. Our seminars, workshops, research, and teaching experiences prepare you to undertake a self-defined final project. Individualized: You will follow your interests as you complete your degree, selecting seminars that support a concentration in literature, composition, pedagogy, or creative writing. Concentrations can be combined for intra-disciplinary study and you can take courses offered by our MFA program or College of Education. Mentorship-Focused: You will get to know our faculty in small, discussion-centered seminars. You select a faculty advisor for your self-defined final project. In this program, you will: Develop advanced knowledge of literary, composition, and pedagogical theory, enabling you to engage in sophisticated literary analysis, interpretation, research, and teaching Hone your writing skills and cultivate your own voice as a writer, whether in academic essays, creative pieces, or professional writing, allowing you to communicate your ideas and insights in a variety of contexts Gain a deep appreciation for the cultural, historical, archival, and social contexts that shape literary works, fostering a broader understanding of the complexities of human experiences and perspectives Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Career Possibilities Prepare for doctoral study or law school. Pursue a career as a professional writer, publishing your work in literary journals, magazines, or websites. Work as an editor and collaborate with writers to shape their final product for publication. Or, teach literature or writing at the secondary or college level, inspiring future writers, educators, and community leaders. These are just a few of the possibilities. Become a(n): Author Editor Copywriter Digital Media Specialist Journalist Literary/Film Critic Professor/Teacher Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: The English Graduate Committee will recommend full admission for those applicants who present evidence of their ability and appropriate preparation to do graduate work with distinction. Such evidence must include: A distinguished undergraduate record in advanced undergraduate English courses. An undergraduate major in English is preferred. Two substantive and detailed letters of recommendation from former teachers familiar with the applicant’s most recent academic work. An essay of at least 1,200 words by the applicant concerning his or her intellectual, professional, and personal reasons for desiring to pursue the advanced study of English. The essay should give a specific account of the applicant’s past studies and projects and an explanation of the applicant’s major fields or subjects of interest in the field. This essay is of great importance and is evaluated as a demonstration of ability in writing and thinking about literary issues. It constitutes the second part of the statement of interests and intent described in the “Graduate Admissions Application Instructions” section of the graduate application (see the section on additional instructions for all applicants). A critical essay written in the last four years, 7-10 pages in length, demonstrating the applicant’s ability to read and write critically about literary texts. Students interested in the creative writing concentration should include approximately 6 poems or 2 short stories along with their critical essay, but the creative writing sample may not substitute for the critical essay, which is required. Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores (Verbal, Quantitative, and Literature in English) are not required. Otherwise excellent candidates who appear not quite prepared to meet one or more of the above requirements may be admitted provisionally on completion of additional English courses at the advanced undergraduate level, or may be asked to enroll as non-degree students in one or two graduate courses before being reviewed for full admission. Such students should be aware that, if they are later admitted to the degree program, only 6 credits taken as a non-degree student at UMass Boston may count toward the degree. The department welcomes applications from in-service secondary English teachers. Some graduate teaching assistantships are available each year. Applications for assistantships are due the third week of April for the following academic year. Start Your Application Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: June 15 for fall (priority deadline March 1), December 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum - Literature Concentration Complete ten courses including one core course, one pre-1850 course, three literature courses, four electives, and one final exercise course. Core Course (3 Credits) ENGL 621 - Literary Theory Today 3 Credit(s) Pre-1850 Course (3 Credits) Complete one from below. ENGL 631 - Medieval to Renaissance Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 633 - Shakespeare 3 Credit(s) ENGL 641 - Studies in Romanticism 3 Credit(s) Literature Courses (9 Credits) Complete three from below. ENGL 600 - Studies in Criticism 3 Credit(s) ENGL 601 - Studies in Poetry 3 Credit(s) ENGL 602 - Studies in Fiction 3 Credit(s) ENGL 603 - Studies in Drama 3 Credit(s) ENGL 605 - Studies in Literature and Film 3 Credit(s) ENGL 610 - The Teaching of Composition 3 Credit(s) ENGL 611 - The Teaching of Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 613 - Teaching English with Technology 3 Credit(s) ENGL 621 - Literary Theory Today 3 Credit(s) ENGL 622 - Ecocriticism: Environmental Criticism and Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 624 - Language of Film 3 Credit(s) ENGL 628 - Comparative Studies of Two Writers 3 Credit(s) ENGL 631 - Medieval to Renaissance Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 633 - Shakespeare 3 Credit(s) ENGL 641 - Studies in Romanticism 3 Credit(s) ENGL 642 - Victorian Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 646 - Literature and Society 3 Credit(s) ENGL 648 - Modernism in Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 651 - Nineteenth Century American Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 653 - Major American Novelists 3 Credit(s) ENGL 654 - Modern American Fiction 3 Credit(s) ENGL 655 - The Harlem Renaissance 3 Credit(s) ENGL 663 - Revolutionary Romanticism 3 Credit(s) ENGL 667 - Seminar for Tutors 3 Credit(s) ENGL 683 - Literary Sites and Spaces 3 Credit(s) ENGL 697 - Special Topics in Literature and Composition 1-6 Credit(s) ENGL 699 - Master of Art Thesis 6 Credit(s) Electives (12 Credits) Complete four ENGL courses at the 600-level. Final Exercise Course (3 Credits) ENGL 693 - Final Project in Literature 3 Credit(s) Explore Courses in the Academic Catalog Curriculum - Composition  Concentration Complete ten courses including one core course, three composition courses, five electives, and one final exercise course. Core Course (3 Credits) ENGL 610 - The Teaching of Composition 3 Credit(s) Composition Courses (9 Credits) Complete three from below. ENGL 667 - Seminar for Tutors 3 Credit(s) ENGL 668 - Perspectives on Composition 3 Credit(s) ENGL 669 - Writing Theories in Second Language Instruction 3 Credit(s) ENGL 670 - Philosophy and the Composing Process 3 Credit(s) ENGL 672 - Research in Writing Studies 3 Credit(s) ENGL 673 - Digital Writing 3 Credit(s) ENGL 674 - Writing and Community 3 Credit(s) Electives (15 Credits) Complete five ENGL courses at the 600-level. Final Exercise Course (3 Credits) ENGL 691 - Final Project in Composition 3 Credit(s) Explore Courses in the Academic Catalog Curriculum - Creative Writing Concentration Complete ten courses including one core course, three creative writing courses, three literature courses, two electives, and one final exercise course. Core Course (3 Credits) ENGL 681 - Advanced Workshop in Poetry 3 Credit(s) OR ENGL 682 - Advanced Workshop in Fiction 3 Credit(s) Creative Writing Courses (9 Credits) Complete three from below. ENGL 675 - Reading and Writing Poetry 3 Credit(s) ENGL 676 - Reading and Writing Fiction 3 Credit(s) ENGL 681 - Advanced Workshop in Poetry 3 Credit(s) ENGL 682 - Advanced Workshop in Fiction 3 Credit(s) Literature Courses (9 Credits) Complete three from below. ENGL 600 - Studies in Criticism 3 Credit(s) ENGL 601 - Studies in Poetry 3 Credit(s) ENGL 602 - Studies in Fiction 3 Credit(s) ENGL 603 - Studies in Drama 3 Credit(s) ENGL 605 - Studies in Literature and Film 3 Credit(s) ENGL 610 - The Teaching of Composition 3 Credit(s) ENGL 611 - The Teaching of Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 613 - Teaching English with Technology 3 Credit(s) ENGL 621 - Literary Theory Today 3 Credit(s) ENGL 622 - Ecocriticism: Environmental Criticism and Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 624 - Language of Film 3 Credit(s) ENGL 628 - Comparative Studies of Two Writers 3 Credit(s) ENGL 631 - Medieval to Renaissance Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 633 - Shakespeare 3 Credit(s) ENGL 641 - Studies in Romanticism 3 Credit(s) ENGL 642 - Victorian Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 646 - Literature and Society 3 Credit(s) ENGL 648 - Modernism in Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 651 - Nineteenth Century American Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 653 - Major American Novelists 3 Credit(s) ENGL 654 - Modern American Fiction 3 Credit(s) ENGL 655 - The Harlem Renaissance 3 Credit(s) ENGL 663 - Revolutionary Romanticism 3 Credit(s) ENGL 667 - Seminar for Tutors 3 Credit(s) ENGL 683 - Literary Sites and Spaces 3 Credit(s) ENGL 697 - Special Topics in Literature and Composition 1-6 Credit(s) Electives (6 Credits) Complete two ENGL courses at the 600-level. Final Exercise Course (3 Credits) ENGL 692 - Final Project in Creative Writing 3 Credit(s) Explore Courses in the Academic Catalog Curriculum - Pedagogy Concentration Complete ten courses including one core course, three pedagogy courses, five electives, and one final exercise course. Core Course (3 Credits) ENGL 610 - The Teaching of Composition 3 Credit(s) OR ENGL 611 - The Teaching of Literature 3 Credit(s) Pedagogy Courses (9 Credits) Complete three from below. ENGL 610 - The Teaching of Composition 3 Credit(s) ENGL 611 - The Teaching of Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 613 - Teaching English with Technology 3 Credit(s) ENGL 668 - Perspectives on Composition 3 Credit(s) ENGL 669 - Writing Theories in Second Language Instruction 3 Credit(s) ENGL 670 - Philosophy and the Composing Process 3 Credit(s) ENGL 672 - Research in Writing Studies 3 Credit(s) ENGL 673 - Digital Writing 3 Credit(s) ENGL 674 - Writing and Community 3 Credit(s) ENGL 698 - Teaching Fellows Seminar 3 Credit(s) CW 614 - The Teaching of Creative Writing 3 Credit(s) Electives (15 Credits) Complete five ENGL courses at the 600-level. Final Exercise Course (3 Credits) Explore Courses in the Academic Catalog Initial Licensure English MA Students who wish to teach English at the middle (grades 5-8) or secondary (grades 8-12) school level may earn an initial teacher license through the program of study below. Admission Requirements Students wishing to pursue this track must do the following: Update their “English MA Program Declaration Concentration” form in the MA office and a submit a copy to the College of Education and Human Development Student Services office. Create an Educator Licensure and Recruitment (ELAR) account with the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). Schedule an initial meeting with the English Department licensure advisor in order to plan a program of study. Schedule an initial meeting with the College of Education & Human Development licensure advisor in order to plan a program of study in education. Course Requirements English Masters Courses: Students must complete the requirements for the Master of Arts in English, including the four courses below. ENGL 610 - The Teaching of Composition 3 Credit(s) ENGL 611 - The Teaching of Literature 3 Credit(s) ENGL 613 - Teaching English with Technology 3 Credit(s) APLING 603 - Language, Culture and Identity 3 Credit(s) Education Courses: In addition to the courses for their program, students must complete four education courses from below. EDC G 630 - Inclusion PreK-12:Diversity and Equity in Inclusive Settings 3 Credit(s) EDC G 644 - Developmental Stages across the Lifespan 3 Credit(s) EDC G 650 - Rethinking Equity and Teaching for English Language Learners 3 Credit(s) EDC G 687 - Graduate Practicum: Student Teaching Middle School Education 6 Credit(s) OR EDC G 688 - Graduate Practicum: Student Teaching Secondary Education 6 Credit(s) Pre-Practicum Requirements Students must complete at least 75 supervised pre-practicum field hours in middle or high school. All hours must be satisfied during EDC G 650, which requires one full day of field work. To be eligible for pre-practicum, students must have passed the Communication and Literacy MTEL; have taken the English MTEL; and have passed ENGL 610,611, APLING 603, and EDC G 644. All students must apply for their pre-practicum through the College of Education and Human Development by March 1 for Fall or October 1 for Spring. Once accepted, the field placement coordinator will make arrangements for your pre-practicum site. In-service public school teachers working with English language learners may apply to meet the pre-practicum field experience requirement through their current teaching. Required Examinations The Massachusetts Department of Education requires all candidates for initial license to pass the Massachusetts Test for Educator License (MTEL). This test consists of two parts: the first tests the candidate’s communication and literacy skills through a reading and writing test; the second tests the candidate’s competency in the subject matter specific to the certification area sought (English). Students must successfully complete the Massachusetts Department of Education Communication and Literary Subject Test in English by the semester before student teaching. Practicum Requirements The practicum consists of one semester of supervised student teaching in a middle or secondary English classroom (a minimum of 300 hours). It is concurrent with a practicum seminar (totaling six credits for practicum and seminar). Students receive supervision throughout the duration of the practicum from both a university supervisor and a mentor teacher (mentor teachers must hold professional licensure or its equivalent–three years of initial licensure in this field). Application Procedure for Practicum Students must apply for the practicum through the CEHD Office of Teacher Education. The following paperwork is required: A completed application for student teaching A current UMass Boston transcript Documentation of 75 hours of field observation (pre-practicum requirement) or equivalent Proof of passing the Communications and Literacy section and the English subject area test of the MTEL. Deadline for submitting applications for student teaching are March 1 for Fall and October 1 for Spring. The application process is completed online by first contacting the Office of Teacher Education. Graduation Criteria Complete 30 credits (ten courses) in one of four concentrations. Concentrations: Students must pick a concentration in literature, composition, creative writing, or pedagogy. Capstone: Students must complete an analytical essay, written exam, or thesis. Statute of limitations: Five years. Contact Graduate Program Director Alex Mueller alex.mueller [at] umb.edu (617) 287-6723 English MA Program Department englishma.program [at] umb.edu English Department Learn more about UMass Boston's English department, our programs, and our faculty. Explore our English Department College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore the College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms