News & Events - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home William Monroe Trotter Institute News & Events Menu menu Menu Research & Impact People Resources News & Events Tuesdays at the Trotter A Conversation with Dr. Jacqueline Jones Registration Link: https://umassboston.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_0yO5ZO6CTpywcv2LvmAkVg International and Interdisciplinary Conference on Race Date: November 7-9, 2024 The institute is cosponsoring the International and Interdisciplinary Conference on Race held on the campus of Monmouth University at West Long Branch, New Jersey. Read Our Publications Read our Trotter-published publications which highlight our research and advocacy in Black culture. Trotter Review The Trotter Review is a peer reviewed journal published by the Trotter Institute available in ScholarWorks. Resilience Policy Brief This series, created by the Institute, aims to inform the public about the challenges and opportunities facing Black Boston. Trotter Gazette The Trotter Gazette is the institute's newsletter. Read the Newsletter Explore More News & Media Dr. Williams In The News Dr. Williams’ most recently published book is: The Georgia of the North : Black Women and the Civil Rights Movement in New Jersey , Rutgers University Press, 2024. Dr. Williams delivers book talk, The Georgia of the North: Black Women and the Civil Rights Movement in New Jersey , at The Book House , Long Branch, New Jersey August 8, 2024. Dr. Williams participated in a Panel Presentation, “Exploring the Depths: Psychology of the Black Woman ,” Two River Theatre, Red Bank, New Jersey, June 20, 2024. Dr. Williams delivered a paper, “People are Dying!” Working Class Black Women and the Origins of the Environmental Justice Movement, The Global Conference on Women and Gender , Christopher Newport News, Virginia, March 23, 2024. African American Women Leaders of the Civil Rights Movement Montclair Public Library, February 14, 2023, " Adult School: African American Women Leaders of the NJ Civil Rights Movement ." Dr. Williams is a research historian on this Documentary Project: “ My Buddy: The WWII 369th Documentary Project ”, Hawaii News Now story on the project March 6, 2019 Dr. Williams' latest Book: A Seat at the Table Podcasts Dr. Williams is the host of several podcast shows: This Week in Black History, Society, and Culture New Books Network Intellectual History Channel Black in Boston and Beyond Podcast Trotter Publications The Trotter Institute disseminates its research via reports, policy briefs, and its journal, the Trotter Review . The subjects covered by the Trotter Institute include Affirmative Action , Arts & Literature , Business & Economic Development , Conference Proceedings , Demographic Studies , Education , Health , Housing & Community Development , International Issues , Labor & Employment , Media , Round Table Reports , Social Policy & Social Change , Trotter Review Abstracts , and Eagle Forward & Eagle's Flight Archive . Resilience (Trotter's policy brief series) Resilience 1, No. 1 (April 2020) . Quito Swan. "Covid-19: Black Skins, No Masks." This issue addressed racial disparities in the impact of COVID-19 in neighborhoods across Boston. The Trotter Review The Trotter Review was first published in 1987. Past issues of the journal can be found on ScholarWorks, a service of the University of Massachusetts libraries. Trotter Review Vol. 22 (2014) : "Appreciating Difference" Trotter Review Vol. 21 (2013) : "Reclaiming Humanity in and out of the Cell" Trotter Review Vol. 20 (2012) : "Gaining Political Ground in the Twenty-First Century" Trotter Review Vol. 19 (2010) : "Where is Home? Immigrants of Color in Massachusetts" Trotter Review Vol. 18 (2009) : "Niagara, NAACP, and Now" commemorated the 100th anniversary of the NAACP. Reports The Black Comparative Experience in Massachusetts The Boston Foundation 2014 Annual Report "Corridor of Promise: This is How We Build Vibrant Places" "Black Churches and Neighborhood Empowerment in Boston, Massachusetts 1960s and 1970s" James Jennings, PhD, 28pp, 2012 Available for purchase through the institute State of Black Boston 2011 report. Produced in collaboration with the Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts and the Boston chapter of the NAACP. "The Race Gap: Education of Black Youth in Boston" Alix Cantave, PhD, Cheryl Holmes, PhD, Barbara Lewis, PhD, 32pp, 2007. Available for purchase and on ScholarWorks "Crime in the African-American Neighborhood" Alix Cantave, PhD, 22 pp., 2007 Available for purchase and on ScholarWorks "Black Opinion in Early African American Newspapers in Boston" Kenneth J. Cooper, 2007 The PDF is available here: Black Opinion in Early African American Newspapers in Boston "Housing Affordability for Households of Color in Massachusetts" Michael E. Stone, 2006 Available on ScholarWorks "Transformation and Taking Stock: A Summary of Selected Findings by Race from the University of Massachusetts Poll" Carol Hardy-Fanta and Paul Watanabe, 61 pp., 2006 Available on ScholarWorks Archives Eagle Forward / Eagle's Flight Archives of the newspaper of the 24th Infantry Regiment, during its time in the Korean War. The Fighting 24th was one of the US Army's last segregated units. Related Publications & Media Black Studies Matter We are happy to announce BLACK STUDIES MATTERS, our collaborative four-part series of virtual Black History Month events. "Literature, Culture, and Activism" "Literature, Culture, and Activism in the African American Freedom Struggle" by Peggy Trotter Dammond Preacely Presentations & Other Publications Second International Colloquium on African Studies. March 24-26th, 2021 The African World & The Black Pacific. The African World & The Black Pacific. Sponsored by the William Monroe Trotter Institute March 26, 2021 Gentrification Comes For Harriet Tubman House Local residents are protesting the sale while the nonprofit that owns it says selling it is crucial for its survival. Black Radical: The Life and Times of William Monroe Trotter William Monroe Trotter (1872–1934), though still virtually unknown to the wider public, was an unlikely American hero. Changing Faces of Greater Boston This report includes a case study on the challenges and legacies of African Americans in Greater Boston. Revolutions Won't Be Televised: The Mind of Gil Scott-Heron William Monroe Trotter | Thomas Jefferson's Monticello The Hidden History of Boston Though arguably America's most historic city, Boston also claims its share of little-known events. The Life and Times of Phillis Wheatley Barbara Lewis talks about the time in which poet Phillis Wheatley lived. A Historical Overview of Poverty Among Blacks in Boston Read the Hayden Report. The Living Archive: African American Poetry Panel #2 Read Barbara Lewis's remarks regarding black poetry in the 21st Century Basic Black Program: Black Art and Audiences A program on the arts in the African American community Report on Black Lives in MA urges local community action Trotter Institute Director Barbara Lewis cites a demographic turnaround. The Black Comparative Experience in Mass. 2015 Final Report This comparative research report highlights of African Americans Asian Americans, European Americans, and Latino Americans. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms