Transfer Enrollment Checklist - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions Admitted Students Admitted Student Checklist Transfer Enrollment Checklist Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Admitted Students Admitted Student Checklist First Year Enrollment Checklist Transfer Enrollment Checklist International Student Enrollment Checklist DSP Enrollment Checklist Advanced Credits Graduate Student Enrollment Checklist Submit Your Deposit Undergraduate Forms Graduate Forms Parents DACA & Undocumented Transfer Enrollment Checklist Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston. There are still a few things left to do before you can call yourself a Beacon! Review the list below to be sure you have completed all setps. Contact the Office of Admissions at 617.287.6100 or undergrad.admissions@umb.edu with any questions. Submit Your Enrollment Deposit All new students must submit a $250 New Student Deposit which will be applied to your first semester tuition bill. Log into Beacon Gateway to submit your deposit. If you believe you may qualify for a New Student Deposit waiver, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions . Claim Your UMass Boston Student Accounts 24 hours after submitting your New Student Deposit, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: WISER - your UMass Boston student information system which you will access for registration, placement testing, etc. Webmail - your UMass Boston email account Register for New Student Orientation All new students are required to attend New Student Orientation. Orientation is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, register for classes, and familiarize yourself with university resources. After you've submitted your enrollment deposit, log into Beacon Gateway and click on the 'Events' tab to register for your orientation. Understanding Your Transfer Credit Evaluation and Degree Audit Shortly after being admitted you should receive an email from the Office of Undergraduate Admissions notifying you that your official Transfer Credit Evaluation (TCE) is available for review in Beacon Gateway. It's important that you understand your credit evaluation. For more information, watch this quick video demonstrating how to understand your TCE . If you have academic coursework that is in progress, be sure to submit final, official transcripts to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions as soon as possible and prior to your New Student Orientation and advising session. Please send electronic transcripts to transcripts@umb.edu . Mailed transcripts may be sent to the address below: University of Massachusetts Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 William T Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA 02125 Writing & Math Placement Guided Writing Placement All new students will participate in a guided writing assessment, which will result in recommended placements for both composition and other required courses. Please follow these steps to complete your Guided Writing Placement . ALEKS Math Placement The ALEKS math placement exam is required for ALL incoming undergraduate students EXCEPT: Liberal arts students receiving math transfer credit who do not intend to take more math courses. Science students receiving transfer credit for college algebra or pre-calculus with a grade of B or better in the most recent semester, and students transferring in calculus or higher mathematics courses. Management students receiving transfer credit for college algebra with a grade of B or better in the most recent semester, and students transferring in pre-calculus or higher mathematics courses. Bachelor of Arts students and nursing students receiving transfer credit for statistics. Students who have an SAT or ACT score within two years, as noted in the Score Report Chart . Students who do not meet the exceptions above should plan to take the ALEKS math placement before orientation. All students taking the ALEKS placement will be given access to a personalized learning module within ALEKS and the opportunity to retest if needed. You may discuss this with your advisor during your advising/registration session following orientation. Log into WISER in order to complete your ALEKS Math Placement test. Click here for instructions on logging into WISER . Health Services: Immunization and Health Insurance To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. On-Campus & Off-Campus Housing While on-campus housing is primarily reserved for first year students, there may be opportunities for transfer students to live on campus. Please contact housing@umb.edu to inquire about opportunities to live on campus. The Office of Off-Campus Living has staff and resources to assist students with finding off-campus housing. Explore resources and find contact information on our off-campus housing website . Get Your Financing In Order Be sure to keep up on financial aid, merit scholarships, and employment opportunities. UMass Boston's One Stop staff is here to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar and Bursar questions. International Students & F-1 Visas Upon admission to UMass Boston, the Office of Global Programs will reach out to encourage international students in need of an I-20 to upload financial and other documentation. Upon submitting a New Student Enrollment Deposit, International students will need to claim their UMass Boston account and then use those credentials (username and password) to access the Global Programs portal to begin uploading required documentation. Please contact the Office of Global Programs with any questions: global@umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms