Management Minor - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Management Minor Home Academics Majors & Programs Management Minor Declare or Change Your Minor Request Info About UMass Boston Undergraduate Admissions Learn About Effective Leadership & Organizational Management Techniques. UMass Boston’s Management Minor gives you a strong foundation in business theory and practical management skills, complementing any major outside of the business world. Through this program, you'll gain skills in communication, presentation, ethics, and critical thinking—all essentials in today’s job market. You’ll also learn valuable insights about different areas of leadership and organizational management. This program is an ideal choice if you’re looking to enhance your professional qualifications. After finishing, you’ll be well-prepared for many industries, including finance, technology, non-profit, healthcare, and more. Expand Your Studies How to Apply/Declare Current Undergraduate Students: Students must apply for and be accepted to the Management Minor program. Students should complete an Undergraduate Program Add/Change form to apply for the minor. The following criteria must be met to be accepted into the management minor: Complete MATH 134 - Managerial Calculus Complete one course in statistics (e.g., MATH 125, ECON 205, PSYCH 370, or SOCIOL 350) Complete at least 12 credits at UMass Boston Maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.75 with no incomplete grades Students will not be accepted into the management minor if all requirements are not met. Prospective Undergraduate Students: Apply for admission to UMass Boston by completing an application. Start by reviewing the first-year and transfer application pages for important information about requirements, deadlines, and application status checks. Use the links below to apply: Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Curriculum Students must complete seven courses (21 credits) for the management minor. No course in this minor can be taken on a pass/fail basis. Normally, non-CM students are limited to certain courses and only 18 credits in the College of Management, however, accepted minors will be able to complete the requirements below. Four Required Courses (12 credits) AF 210 - Financial Accounting 3 credit(s) BC 290 - Professional Written Communication and Critical Analysis 3 credit(s) MGT 303 - Managing Organizations 3 credit(s) MSIS 110 - Introduction to Computers and Information Science 3 credit(s) Two Management Core Courses (6 credits) Choose two courses from the list below. AF 211 - Managerial Accounting 3 credit(s) AF 301 - Financial Management 3 credit(s) MKT 301 - Principles of Marketing 3 credit(s) MSIS 301 - Operations Management 3 credit(s) 300- or 400-Level College of Management Course (3 credits) One additional 300- or 400-level College of Management course for which all prerequisites are met. Please note: Students in the management minor are advised to take ECON 101 and ECON 102 as well. It is highly recommended that any student considering or enrolled in the management minor seek regular advising in the Academic and Career Engagement and Success Center or from an advisor in their college. Completion Requirements Good Standing in the Minor : To have the minor listed on the official transcript, students must maintain a 2.0 average in the minor and receive no more than one D in the minor. The minor must be completed in the College of Management. A maximum of six transfer credits (2 courses) may be applied toward completion of the minor. Students dismissed from the minor for academic reasons may not appeal the decision or be readmitted to the minor. Contact Undergraduate Programs McCormack Hall, 5th Floor, Room 610 617.287.7760 upo@umb.edu Accounting & Finance Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Accounting & Finance, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Accounting & Finance Management Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Management, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Management Management Science and Information Systems Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Management Science and Information Systems, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Management Science and Information Systems Marketing Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Marketing, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Marketing College of Management Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Management. Explore College of Management Next Steps Declare or Change Your Minor Request Info About UMass Boston Undergraduate Admissions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms