Denise.Patmon - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Denise.Patmon Denise Patmon Department: Leadership in Education Title: Department Chairman Location: Wheatley Hall Floor 01 Phone: 617.287.7618 Send Email Biography Dr. Patmon has been at UMass Boston since 1995, when she joined as a faculty member in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction in the College of Education and Human Development.  Since then, she has been immersed in activities and initiatives focused on the support and development of educators.  She is highly regarded as an exemplary mentor, one who gives unstintingly to ensure that faculty can work productively toward fulfilling their aspirations. Additional Information Within the deep well of her experience are positions she has held as department chair; interim director, co-director, and then director of the Center for Innovative Teaching (CIT, formerly known as the Center for the Improvement of Teaching) from 2008-2015, in which she facilitated many semester-long CIT seminars for pre-tenure and tenured faculty; Graduate Program Director for the Boston Writing Project’s Teaching Writing Certificate Program, and co-facilitator of Junior Faculty Research Seminars since 2020-21.   Since the early years of her career, she has displayed a deep commitment to supporting and mentoring educators; this focus brought Dr. Patmon the invitation to be a Distinguished Visiting Professor at the University of Maine’s College of education and Human Development from 2011-2013.  Dr. Patmon has served on the Board of Directors for several institutions and corporations locally and nationally.  She has been the recipient of several Teacher of the Year awards from various institutions.  Pedagogy is her passion. Dr. Patmon’s research and teaching interests span the preparation of K-12 teachers for an anti-racist urban public-school context; the experiences and historical contributions of Black Bostonians; and the preparation of teachers (in-service and pre-service) to teach writing (grades p-16).  She is a contributing author to Jim Gray’s seminal text, Teachers at the Center.  One of her most enduring publications is entitled, “Pedagogy for the Professoriate:  The Personal Meets the Political” in the edited text Transforming Classroom Culture:  Inclusive Pedagogical Practices, by Dallalfar, Kingston-Mann, and Sieber.  She was the recipient of the James Bradford Ames Research Scholar award at UMass Boston.  She has lectured and presented her research at professional conferences and universities in diverse settings throughout the U.S. and in countries in South America, South Africa, Asia, and Europe.  In addition to her many academic publications, she is the author of two children’s books.  She is a pianist, violist, and plays the Japanese koto.  Dr. Patmon looks forward to building on the structures and activities that are institutionalized in the Office for Faculty Development, and to expanding professional development opportunities for faculty at all stages of their careers, department chairs, and graduate students in our Graduate Teaching Program.  She looks forward to working collaboratively with faculty and staff to support the Office for Faculty Development initiatives. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms