This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > GRAD > ehs > ehs 825l Advanced Quantitative Research Methods I Course #: EHS 825L Description: The goal of this required, core course is to provide expertise in empirical research methods. Students will make an in-depth examination of methods used in exercise and health science research. Students will critically analyze scientific, peer-reviewed research, provide critical analysis in written and oral form, and take a leadership role in facilitation group discussions such as semi-structured journal clubs. Skills in methodology will be developed starting from generation hypotheses based on theories and literature reviews to data collection and management. Students will become proficient at developing proposals for valid empirical studies including descriptive and experimental designs to test hypotheses. Ethical issues related to research and concepts of statistics and measurements will be covered to complement required research courses such as EHS 820 Professional and Ethical Issues in EHS and NURSNG 760 Biostatistics courses. Students will prepare and present a research proposal as part of the course. Notes: EHS 825L and NURSNG 825L are the same course Pre Requisites: Offered in: TBA Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000