- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 Students Make Art with Language in Ten Lines or Le Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Students Make Art with Language in Ten Lines or Less 05/06/2021 |
    Danielle Bilotta In its second year, “The Five to Ten Line Poetry Contest,” hosted by the UMass Boston Creative Writing Program, encouraged undergraduate students from all majors to channel their experiences living through a pandemic into their writing. What the program received was a collection of five-to-ten-line poetry that captured the mixed emotions of grief, isolation, love, and loss that 2020 brought to the forefront. “ Art can help us grieve. Art can make us laugh. While art cannot heal all of our troubles, art can help us heal. ” Director of the Undergraduate Creative Writing Program John Fulton said this year’s poems were marked by the lockdown and the “general turmoil we’ve all been through.” “Of course, it could be that I’m just reading them that way, given that, like so many others, I’ve been homebound and searching headlines for any signs on the horizon that things will get better,” he said. “But I don’t think any reader could miss the images of grief, absence, and confinement in these beautiful, short works.” On a celebratory Zoom call to recognize the finalists and announce the winners, Fulton thanked and applauded every student for contributing their work and “taking the time to make art with language.” Students had the opportunity to read their own poems aloud with introductions from the panel of judges, current MFA Creative Writing students. In runner-up Autumn Nutile’s poem, “Bitter Grief,” the speaker of the poem dreams someone back to life only to find this person gone again in waking life, Fulton said. In Shelby Hill’s poem, “Cardinal 2,” which received an honorable mention, the speaker spies a cardinal on a branch outside only to look away for a moment and then find the bird gone. “The final thought of the speaker reverberates with loss: ‘I think I would rather die/than look at those empty branches again,’” he said. English major Rose Flaherty took the top prize of the contest and received $100 for her poem titled “Grandpa is Emaciated and Only Eats Bananas,” in which a family removes the lock from the bathroom to keep a confused grandparent from locking himself in. “As a result, the speaker can’t use the bathroom without him walking in on her: ‘Guess privacy is the price to pay/so grandpa won’t die in the bathroom,’” Fulton said. “These poems look outside windows for hope and speak of rooms that either dangerously confine us or won’t give us the liberty of privacy. The poems dream of lost worlds that won’t come back. That’s not an easy vision,” Fulton said. “But I think it’s, at least in part, the world we’re in now. And I’m thankful that these poets have allowed us to look at it together.” MFA Creative Writing student and contest judge Jake Phillips said as a poet, he doesn’t support the notion that artists must suffer for their art but believes art can help us “respond, process, support one another, and lift marginalized voices.” “Art can help us grieve. Art can make us laugh. While art cannot heal all of our troubles, art can help us heal,” he said. Rose Flaherty’s Winning Poem: “Grandpa is Emaciated and Only Eats Bananas” He doesn’t know any better always locks the door from the inside, We have to use a screw to save him put it right in that small hole on the doorknob, Mom taped up the push in the lock so now he can’t keep it closed, Except now when I pee he just walks right in, Guess privacy is the price to pay so grandpa won’t die in the bathroom. The Five-to-Ten-Line Poetry Contest Finalists: Winner: Rose Flaherty, “Grandpa is Emaciated and Only Eats Bananas” Runner-Up: Hannah Ortiz, “Casting yourself as the villain in every movie” Runner-Up: Autumn Nutile, “Bitter Grief” Honorable Mention: Shelby Hill, “Cardinal 2” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms