Covid19 In Boston - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Survey Research Covid19 In Boston Menu menu Menu About Beacon Covid19 In Boston Investigators Covid19 In Boston Methodolgy Nsf Reports Faq Publications Research Services Staff COVID-19 in Boston The Living in Boston during COVID Survey was conducted by the Boston Area Research Initiative ( BARI ), the Center for Survey Research at UMass Boston, and the Boston Public Health Commission , with generous support from the National Science Foundation. It is the only survey in the world to capture disparities in the experiences of, attitudes toward, and impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic across the neighborhoods of a city, providing a unique insight into racial and social inequities. We are highlighting the insights from the survey in a series of reports and bite-size data stories. Infection Transmission of COVID19 in Urban Neighborhoods The consequences of disasters are often influenced by where one lives, but a pandemic introduces the additional ingredient of network diffusion through interactions within and between neighborhoods. This study synthesizes these two perspectives to understand how COVID19 infections spread through a city’s neighborhoods, leading to differential infection rates. Figure 1. COVID-19 cases per capita are highest in Boston’s majority-minority neighborhoods. Research Questions How are residents of Boston’s neighborhoods responding to the pandemic? How do rates of infection and patterns of mobility vary by neighborhood? What influences compliance with social distancing and mask wearing recommendations? Data Survey on social distancing practices, attitudes, and infection exposure Cellphone-generated aggregations of movement across neighborhoods Neighborhood-level diagnosis records Neighborhood geographic features curated by the Boston Area Research Initiative. Analyses Four-part causal model: Neighborhood characteristics Social distancing practices Mobility flows of the city Network diffusion of infection Impact Guidance as cities around the world continue to manage the current pandemic while also preparing for similar crises in the future. Conclusions about how infection-related interventions can be equitable; that is, adopting the necessary sensitivity to support each community based on its underlying needs and challenges. To learn more, see NSF RAPID . Collaborators Boston Area Research Initiative (BARI @ Northeastern & Harvard) Boston Public Health Commission Center for Survey Research 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 617.287.7200 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms