Clinical & Internship Placements - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Clinical & Internship Placements Home The Manning College Clinical & Internship Placements Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Clinical & Internship Placements The Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences uses a number of tools to help you with the placement process. For health clearances, FERPA Waivers, and background checks students must use Complio. For placements, students must use InPlace Smart Placement Solutions. Your clearance information submitted and verified by Complio will be integrated with InPlace. Complio Complio is an online application by American Data Bank where you will submit documents to verify your health clearances, your FERPA waiver form, and background checks. All data that has been submitted through your Complio account will automatically integrate with your InPlace account. Introduction to Complio Before logging in, please read and understand the Complio User Guide For Students . It is recommended to download and save the User Guide for future reference. To access Complio, click on the link below. If you are new to Complio, click on the link below and create a new account. You must use your UMass Boston email address . Please note that although the final step involves payment, MCNHS will be covering all charges and invoices. Log Into Complio If you are experiencing any issues with logging in or using Complio, please email Complio@americandatabank.com or call 800-200-0853 (9am - 8pm EST Mondays-Fridays; 10am - 6pm EST Saturdays). InPlace InPlace Smart Placement Solutions is the new cloud-based software that all MCNHS students will be using for managing clinical placements and internship opportunities required for graduation. Students will be able to view their clearance criteria from an online dashboard, view upcoming placements, and graduate nursing and EHS students can create their own placements. Graduate Nursing students can also continue to log their clinical hours in the InPlace Logbook feature. Introduction to InPlace Before logging in, please read and understand the InPlace User Guide . It is recommended to download and save the User Guide for future reference. Log In Instructions You will be redirected twice: once to InPlace log in screen, then again to the UMass log in screen. Click or tap on the link below to access the InPlace login screen. Click or tap on the top blue button that says " Staff & Students ". You will see the UMass login page for secure Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication. Log in using your UMass Boston email username (before "@umb.edu") and your password, then select Boston as the campus. If this is your first time logging in, you must read the Terms and Conditions and accept. Log Into InPlace If you are experiencing any issues with logging in or using InPlace, please email inplacehelp@umb.edu ! Include your name, student ID number, and which MCNHS program you are enrolled in. Please do not use this help line for inquiries related to Complio. IMPORTANT: It is university policy that all students are required to use their UMass Boston email accounts for all correspondence, no exceptions . Messages from a personal or non-UMass Boston email domain will not receive a response. Unauthorized use prohibited. Use of this service means you agree to all UMass Boston IT Services Policies. If you have forgotten your email password, please refer here to reset it. Preceptor Resources NP_Preceptor_Guidelines_REV_12.2018 Preceptor Orientation FAQs Responsibilities of the Student Clinical Placements - Clinical Evaluation Tool Clinical Placements - Blank Preceptorship Agreement - Fillable Version Clinical Placements - Blank AANP Preceptorship Form Clinical Placements - Blank Preceptorship Hours Verification Form NU 640 Short Syllabus NU 670 Short Syllabus NU 672 Short Syllabus NU 682 Short Syllabus UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms