SSL - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Security SSL Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Antivirus Encryption External Sender Guidelines Junkmail Laptop Theft MFA Passwords Phishing PII Scan SecureIT Server Social Media SSL Standards Research & Innovation About Information Technology Extended Validation SSL Certificates GO ON GREEN! Keep an Eye Out for the Green Indicator It seems as if every week there’s a new security alert in the news, from the Target breach to the Heartbleed bug to the latest announcement about Internet Explorer. Security threats remain a continuous concern. As we find ways to combat risks, another risk arises. One of the biggest tricks of the trade is phishing. Hackers use this means to send you emails from organizations for which you work or do business. These emails are often authentic looking. Not only do the emails look authentic, but hackers can also make the websites they point to look exactly like an organization's website, thus tricking you into entering your credentials to log in. To combat this, the UMass system utilizes extended validation SSL certificates , or the "green indicator," on a number of critical UMass authentication web pages. UMass took this action in order to improve security, combat fraud and phishing attacks foisted on the UMass community when using our systems. What is the green indicator exactly? It’s a visual representation within your browser to indicate the site you are viewing is verified authentic. Users who see the green indicator displayed in their browser can trust they are entering their credentials into a secure and authentic UMass site. Likewise, if the site does not contain the green indicator, it may not be UMass and further investigation may be necessary. In order to obtain an EV certificate, a merchant must provide proof that their organization is legit. It’s not easy for a fraudster to get past these checks. So remember: Go on Green! The examples below show how the green indicator would appear to you in different browsers. UMass will begin using this feature to protect the login screens of several web-based applications and continue to expand the use of these EV certificates among other UMass web-based applications as time and resources permit. When using the following UMass Boston applications, look for the green indicator when you authenticate. WISER HR Direct / Direct Deposit Finance Production v9.1 Finance Reporting V9.1 Summit Reporting BuyWays Effort Certification (ECC) UMass Connect Remember—Go on Green! Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms