Student Leadership & Community Engagement - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Student Leadership & Community Engagement Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities Government Student Leadership & Community Engagement About Us Anti Racism Resources Beacon Awards Beacon Voyages For Service Black Community Engagement Series Civic Action Fellowship Community Faculty Firstyear Leadership Institute Grow Jumpstart Leadership Foundations Community Engagement Initiatives Student Testimonials StrongWomen Media Student Arts & Events Council Student Activities Welcome Week The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Leadership & Community Engagement The Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement enhances the student experience through the development of local community engagement programs, leadership development opportunities, service trips, and more. You can find our current events and programs open for recruitment on UMBeInvolved. Engage in these anti-racism resources Lead. Serve. Be.

OSLCE invites you to get involved with our signature programs! What we do Learn more about OSLCE programs and ways you can get involved on campus GivePulse Your one-stop shop for all things volunteering Hear what students have to say OSLCE student testimonials Get to know us Contact the OSLCE staff Lead. Connect. Grow. The Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement enhances the student experience through the development of local community engagement programs, leadership development opportunities, service trips, and more. You can find our current events and programs open for recruitment on UMBeInvolved. See more information about our programs and relevant coursework Beacon Voyages for Service : This program focuses on developing active citizens through investigating root causes and participating in direct service connected to social justice in various parts of the country during school breaks. Becoming Liberated & Knowledgeable Conference: Hosted each February in collaboration with partners on and off campus dedicated to exploring issues around ethnicity and race in the black community. Each program (series of discussions, panels, and social gatherings) is designed to inspire young people of color to embrace their process of becoming who they want to be and empowering them to become the next generation of leaders within society. BCVI World Cafe : Breaking the Cycle of Violence & OSLCE hosts a dialogue series to develop understanding and tools for building the beloved community through having respectful civil discourse with individuals and groups with whom we disagree. Members of the UMass Boston community and our partners are welcome to attend. UMass Boston Vote Coalition & Boston Votes Coalition , serves as a connecting point for students to get engaged civically in the Greater Boston Community. Community Engagement : Many events and campaigns including Fall & Spring Day of Action, Volunteer Fairs, UMBeTogether, Turkeypalooza, Hunger & Homelessness Awareness Week, and many other social justice focused awareness programs intended to connect UMass Boston students to their community. First-Year Leadership Institute : The First-Year Leadership Institute is an innovative leadership program for first-year, first-time and transfer students, and it encompasses a weekend retreat and regularly scheduled interactive programs based on the 5 Principles of Leadership. GROW : Grow is a peer facilitator program that is part of the Office of Student Leadership & Community Engagement. Trained student leaders serve to provide leadership development workshops for their peers and the University of Massachusetts Boston community. Request a workshop through UMBeInvolved. Jumpstart : The program partners university students who serve year-long as AmeriCorps members with preschool children to develop their language, literacy, and social-emotional skills. UMass Boston's chapter focuses on the preschools that serve low-income communities in Dorchester. Leadership Foundations : Leadership Foundations is a program designed for undergraduate students to expand on their leadership skills through participating in weekly workshops based on the Leadership for Liberation framework while increasing their on- and off-campus involvement by participating in events and service projects. Strong Women Strong Girls : Strong Women, Strong Girls is a nationally recognized mentoring program that utilizes the study of contemporary and historic female role models, skill-building activities, and mentor relationships to help young girls develop the skills they need to become strong and successful women of the future. Want to make the most of your experience with OSLCE? Here is some relevant coursework offered at UMass Boston that enhance what students learn in our programs: ANTH  316 - Nutrition, Growth, & Behavior ANTH  346 - Culture, Globalization, and the Environment CDVCTR  201 - History and Theory of Community Development ENVSCI  101 - The Global Environment GISD 616 - Population Needs and Global Practice GISD 625  - Human Rights-Based Approaches to Social Justice LABOR  210L - Labor and Working Class History in the United States SOCIOL  332 - The Sociology of Recession and Economic Crisis SOCIOL  355L - Gender, Development & Globalization OSLCE by the numbers: 603 Volunteers 33,846 Hours of Service 51 Community Partners $43,000 in Donations UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms