Research Projects - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home International & Comparative Education Cucel Research Projects Menu menu Menu Cucel Research Projects Training Programs Graduate Programs Institute Staff Research Projects And Collaborations Research Strands Research Projects Comparative Studies on Educational Policy Comparative studies on educational policy examine key contemporary global challenges in education, focusing on options to effect systemic change in public education systems in both developed and developing nations. The participants will understand the ways in which policy makers, international consultants, and social entrepreneurs help enhance educational opportunities. They will also discuss the current global efforts on generating effective policy reforms to provide quality education for all children, especially socially disadvantaged and marginalized children. Comparative Studies on Innovation and Educational Entrepreneurs Educational entrepreneurs are defined as individuals striving to generate change in the public education system, which will impact, transform, or radically alter the way education is provided. Program participants will understand the way social entrepreneurs generate and mobilize resources, negotiate partnerships with the public sector, and create and sustain organizations to support innovation. How talented educational entrepreneurs develop, build, and launch their break-the-mold education ventures will be studied. A series of cases on educational innovation and social entrepreneurs will be analyzed. Comparative Education Research Initiatives The Center for U.S.-China Educational Leadership works collaboratively with the participant country institute to conduct the following research projects. Research Project on Textbook and Exemplary Teaching Material This project aims to summarize and synthesize the best leadership practices from the top schools in partner countries, develop hands-on teaching tools and assessment instruments for improving teaching and learning, disseminate effective teaching and learning supplementary material, and identify effective textbooks. Research Project on School-based Curricula and Integrated Curricula School-based curricula and integrated curricula both play important roles in schools all over the world. This project aims to enable participants to study and develop the expertise needed to introduce school-based curricula and integrate curricula successfully in their own schools. Exemplary curricula will be observed and analyzed in comparative perspective. Visiting Scholar Project To support and enrich the IICE’s international participants’ engagement at UMass Boston, the Visiting Scholar Project is available in collaboration with the UMass Boston Office of Global Programs. The project aims to enhance IICE’s academic resources by inviting renowned international scholars to conduct joint transnational and transdisciplinary research projects with their U.S counterparts in IICE. Institute for International and Comparative Education 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.4873 WenFan.Yan@umb.edu This institute is part of the College of Education and Human Development. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms