OLLI at UMass Boston - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News OLLI at UMass Boston Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Beacons Magazine Fall 2023 OLLI at UMass Boston 12/08/2023 |
    Beacons Magazine Did You Know? The Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) at UMass Boston is a membership-based community of adults aged 50 and older who enjoy learning and spending time with like-minded people. With a mission of fostering accessible lifelong learning, individual growth, and social connection, OLLI provides more than 140 non-credit courses, special lectures, social events, theater outings, and field trips in the United States and abroad. As they prepare to celebrate their 25th anniversary next year, Director Jim Hermelbracht shared some facts about OLLI at UMass Boston with Beacons . OLLI at UMass Boston is one of only five Osher programs in the nation housed in a gerontology or nursing department. With this rarity, OLLI is able to tap into the expertise and resources provided by the Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences to connect learners directly with faculty, staff, and graduate students. OLLI at UMass Boston is the only lifelong learning program in the nation that provides free access to the Mango Language Program, allowing members to learn more than 70 languages at their own pace. “Learning a new language is wonderful at keeping the mind active and engaged,” said Hermelbracht. “So, the Mango offering is an invaluable part of supporting our mission of engaging our members both intellectually and socially.” Stonewall at OLLI is the first OLLI-based special interest group in the U.S. specifically aimed at creating an active engagement and support network for LGBTQIA+ seniors. According to Hermelbracht, this group provides a unique and meaningful resource for members. “Many LGBTQIA+ seniors probably had a very different coming out experience than if you were to talk to our undergraduate students,” he said. “Some of these folks have come out later in life and find this group to be a wonderful resource for building and sustaining community connections.” The OLLI Scholars program at UMass Boston gives graduate students from across the university the opportunity to propose and teach courses for OLLI members on any number of topics. “It’s a wonderful intergenerational experience,” said Hermelbracht. “It gives our UMass Boston graduate students some teaching experience if they desire it, and our members really enjoy the fresh knowledge.” Each year, cohorts of 15 to 20 OLLI Scholars teach 30 or more courses and receive a stipend. The oldest current OLLI member at UMass Boston is 96 years old and stays involved in OLLI through its virtual and online programs. OLLI resumed in-person activities after moving to fully remote programming during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, but Hermelbracht said the hybrid model is here to stay. “Fifty-five to sixty percent of our programs are still online, which gives wider accessibility. Maybe folks don’t have the physical mobility they used to, or they just cannot get to one of our on-site programs. Our online programs have been able to provide community and help decrease isolation.” Interested in joining OLLI or learning more about the program? Contact the UMass Boston OLLI team at ollireg@gmail.com or on Facebook (OLLIUMASSBOSTON). UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms