Resources for Alumni - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home The Manning College Departments & Centers Nursing Resources for Alumni Menu menu Menu Departments & Centers Nursing Faculty & Staff Resources for Students Beyond the Classroom Resources for Alumni Exercise & Health Sciences Gerontology Urban Public Health Center for Clinical Education & Research Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Resources for Alumni Welcome! We are glad you have taken time to connect with the UMass Boston Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences Alumni Community. Keep Us Informed As a graduate of one our programs, you are our ambassador to the health care world. We take great pride in your success.  By sharing your personal information and professional accomplishments you contribute to our growing alumni network, strengthen the visibility of UMass Boston, help us promote you in our publications, and gain special access to career development and other educational programs. To update your information with our alumni office, please contact Casey (Gavin) McDonagh, director of development for the Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences, at 617.287.5344 or Casey.McDonagh@umb.edu . Support the College Strengthen the Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences teaching, learning, and research with a gift to the UMass Boston Fund. Your support helps us to adapt the curriculum to the changing demands of the industry, keep pace with constantly evolving technologies, and provide real world experiences for our students. To make a gift please visit our online site , or contact Casey (Gavin) McDonagh, Director of Development for the Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences, at 617.287.5344 or Casey.McDonagh@umb.edu . Stay Involved There are many ways that you can remain connected and engaged with the Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences at UMass Boston. Come for a campus tour, attend an alumni event, mentor a student, or present to one of our classes. For more information, please contact Casey (Gavin) McDonagh, director of development for the Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences, at 617.287.5344 or Casey.McDonagh@umb.edu . Alumni Resources UMass Boston Alumni Association UMass Boston Office of Career Services UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms