Lorenzo.Buonanno - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Lorenzo.Buonanno Lorenzo Buonanno Department: Art Title: Associate Professor Send Email Areas of Expertise Italian Renaissance and Baroque Art and Architecture Degrees PhD, Columbia University, 2014 Professional Publications & Contributions The Performance of Sculpture in Renaissance Venice (New York, Routledge, 2022) “Where Disegno Goes to Die: Constructing the Myth of a Venice without Drawing.” In Venetian Disegno. New Frontiers. Edited by Maria Aresin and Thomas Dalla Costa (London: Paul Holberton Ltd., 2023). (In press) “On the Separation of the Arts in Venice: A Neglected Passage from the Statutes of the Stonemasons’ Guild.” Source. Notes in the History of Art 4.3 (2021): 143-152. "Tullio Lombardo, Antonio Rizzo, and Sculptural Audacity in Renaissance Venice," in The Art of Sculpture in Fifteenth-Century Italy, ed. Amy Bloch and Daniel Zolli (Cambridge, 2020), pp. 259-280. "The Quest for Official Commissions.” In Tintoretto. Artist of Renaissance Venice. Exhibition catalogue, ed. Robert Echols and Frederick Ilchman (Washington, National Gallery of Art, 2018), pp. 134-143. Review of B. Paul, The Tombs of the Doges of Venice (2016), Renaissance Quarterly 71.1 (2018): 240-242. “Revisiting the Frari’s High Altarpiece: The Assunta Frame and Titian as Regisseur.” In Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari. Immagini di devozione e spazi della fede. Edited by Carlo Corsato and Deborah Howard (Padova, 2015), 223-232. “A Charitable Façade? The Sculptural Decoration of the Scuola Grande di San Marco.” Confraternitas 21 (2010): 6-16 Additional Information Lorenzo G. Buonanno specializes in the art of Venice. In his recent work he has examined the principles of making and viewing Venetian Renaissance sculpture, as well as its unusual critical fortune. He is interested in the ways in which artists interact professionally and translate ideas across media, the interplay between technical and intellectual processes in the creation of works of art, and the ways in which viewers react to different object types. Professor Buonanno has presented papers and lectures in the United States and Europe, and has organized numerous conference sessions dedicated to early modern sculpture and to Venetian art. His research has been supported by grants and fellowships from Columbia University, The Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, and the Renaissance Society of America. His first book, The Performance of Sculpture in Renaissance Venice, was published in 2022. He is currently also Chair of the Catherine Scott Frisone Center for Italian Studies at the University of Massachusetts Boston, in Memory of John. B. Frisone. His current projects include: essays on the historiography of Venetian art, an edited volume on altar and altarpieces in the "Venetian Mediterranean," and studies on climate, environment, and the destruction of fresco painting in Venice. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms