Marc.Lavine - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Marc.Lavine Marc Lavine Department: Management Title: Associate Professor Location: McCormack Hall Floor 05 Phone: 617.287.3814 Send Email Area of Expertise Corporate Social Responsibility, Leadership Development, Nonprofit Management & Social Enterprise, Organizational Behavior Degrees PhD and MS, Boston College, Carroll School of Management MBA & MEd, University of Michigan BA, Earlham College Professional Publications & Contributions Lavine, M. 2014. Paradoxical Leadership and the Competing Values Framework. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, Vol: 50 (2): 189-205. Lavine, M., Bright, D.,Powley, E., Cameron, K. 2014. Exploring the Generative Potential between Positive Organizational Scholarship and Management, Spirituality, and Religion Research; Journal of Management, Spirituality and Religion. Vol: 11 (1): 6-26. Lavine, M 2014. From Knowledge to Action: Social Movement Insights for a New Vision of the Firm, in Timothy L. Fort, The Vision of the Firm: Its Governance, Obligations, & Aspirations. A Textbook on the Ethics of Organizations, West Academic Lavine, M. 2012* Exploring the Relationship between Corporate Social Performance and Work Meaningfulness, Journal of Corporate Citizenship, Vol 46: 53-70. (*published in June 2013). Lavine, M. 2012. When Doing Less is Something New: Social Movements and Frame Contraction Processes Best Paper Proceedings of the Academy of Management. Lavine, M. & Cameron, K. 2012. From Weapons to Wildlife: Positive Organizing in Practice. Organizational Dynamics, Vol: 41(2), 135-145. Lavine, M & Roussin,C. 2012. From Idea to Action: Promoting Responsible Management Education through a Semester Long Academic Integrity Learning Project Journal of Management Education, Vol: 36 (3): 428-455. Lavine, M.2011. Positive Deviance: A Metaphor and Method for Learning from the Uncommon, in the Handbook of Positive Organizational Scholarship (Cameron & Spreitzer, Eds.), Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK. Lavine, M. 2010. From Scholarly Dialogue to Social Movement: Considerations and Implications for Peace through Commerce. Journal of Business Ethics, Vol 89 (4): 603-614. Additional Information Background Lavine consults to companies and nonprofit organizations on issues of change management, leadership development, organizational learning, and social responsibility. He has also served on the boards of numerous nonprofit organizations. Lavine has extensive experience leading nonprofit educational programs and social ventures. He has worked throughout the U.S. and Latin America and founded an award-winning leadership development initiative serving young adults from Northern Ireland. Lavine has taught management courses at the undergraduate or graduate level at Boston College, Boston University and the University of Michigan. Research Interests Marc Lavine is interested in the dynamics of social change. He explores how ideas give rise to social movements and how social movement actors frame messages to attract and retain adherents. He also examine positive deviance as a mechanism that enables social innovation. Additionally, he is interested the relationship between organizational practices and individual meaning-making at work. He considers how the social responsibility practices of organizations influence employee engagement. He also studies leadership development and the dynamics of collaborative leadership as well methods and practices to improve management education. Professional Activities Member of the Academy of Management, Organizational Behavior Teaching Society, Positive Organizational Scholarship Community of Scholars; Associate Editor, Journal of Management Education, Journal of Business Ethics, Journal of Management Inquiry, International Public Management Journal, MOC & SIM divisions of the Academy of Management; independent consultant to companies and nonprofit organizations. Honors and Awards 2014 Outstanding Reviewer Awards for MED and MOC divisions of the Academy of Management 2012 Paper Selected for Best Paper Proceedings, Org. Mgmt. Theory Division (OMT) Academy of Management 2012 Outstanding Reviewer Award for Management & Org. Cognition Division (MOC), Academy of Management 2010-11 Betty Diener Graduate Teaching Award, College of Management, UMass Boston 2008-09 Donald J. White Teaching Excellence Award, Boston College Courses Taught Management 303: Managing Organizations Management 650: Organizational Analysis & Skills Management 687: Nonprofit Management Executive Education: City of Boston Center for Collaborative Leadership: Emerging Leaders Program Business Administration 775: PhD Teaching Seminar UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms