2024 Doctoral Hooding Ceremony  - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News 2024 Doctoral Hooding Ceremony Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Commencement UMass Boston Confers Doctorates and an Honorary Degree at 2024 Doctoral Hooding Ceremony 05/29/2024 |
    Sandra Mason UMass Boston honored graduating doctoral students at a Doctoral Hooding Ceremony on May 22 in the Campus Center Ballroom. An honorary degree for Judge Roberto Andres Gallardo was also conferred during the ceremony. Image By: Javier Rivas, Haley Abram, Nick Brady, and Jack Macmullin UMass Boston honored graduating doctoral students at a Doctoral Hooding Ceremony on May 22 in the Campus Center Ballroom. An honorary degree for Judge Roberto Andres Gallardo was also conferred during the ceremony. Associate Vice Provost for Graduate Education Tracy Baynard opened the event with a welcome message to a room filled with a joyous crowd of graduating doctoral students, faculty, family, friends, and colleagues. Many others watched the event being broadcast live in viewing rooms. Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Joseph Berger congratulated the graduates on their accomplishments, dedication, hard work, and resilience. “The knowledge, the skills, the expertise you have gained from each other, from your advisors, other faulty members and the myriad learning experiences here at UMass Boston prepare you well for a future that needs you and your scholarly expertise,” he said. Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco challenged students to “make your doctoral degrees matter. Graduate education is a cornerstone at UMass Boston – and it is central to our mission. Not only have each of you produced original scholarship that advances knowledge or impacts lives. You will also become trusted researchers, instructors, and mentors who enrich your fields. The chancellor encouraged graduates to go further by being "an ambassador of that knowledge – to be prepared to share it meaningfully with your colleagues within and outside your respective disciplines and with the world. “ Chancellor Suárez-Orozco conferred a doctor of humane letters degree to Judge Gallardo. The honorary degree serves to recognize Gallardo’s unwavering commitment to social justice. This commitment includes his work with the Pan-American Committee of Judges for Social Rights and Franciscan Doctrine, a committee of 120 magistrates who advocate for respect for human rights in courts throughout the Americas. His Holiness Pope Francis appointed Gallardo president of the committee in 2023. During the hooding ceremony, graduating students came to the stage one by one. Once on the stage, each doctoral candidate’s faculty advisor placed a doctoral hood over the student’s regalia (academic robe) to signify the shift from student to expert in their field. One hundred forty students earned doctoral degrees in the 2023-24 academic year, and most participated in the hooding ceremony. Doctoral degrees conferred at the event were Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Doctor of Education (EdD), and Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP). All six colleges— College of Management, Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences, School for the Environment, College of Education and Human Development, College of Liberal Arts, and College of Science and Mathematics—were represented at the event. “You are now part of a vibrant research community. Look around this room – at the colleagues, friends, and research partners you came to know, to whom you offered encouragement, and with whom you debated ideas. Together, you are the new generation of rising academic leaders and experts who will break ground on new discoveries and innovations. Well done, Beacons, well done!” Chancellor Suárez-Orozco said. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms