Equipment - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Makerspace About Us Equipment Menu menu Menu 3D Printing About Us Equipment Rules Contact Us Equipment 3D Printers 10 Prusa Mk3s+ Printers 1 Creality CR10-S5 Large Format Printer 1 Creality CR30 Belt Printer 3D Scanning Qlone- iPad Application Creality Scan Lizard 3D Scanner and turn table 2 Mini-Battery operated sewing machines Elegoo Arduino Kits Soldering irons Random electrical parts and screws Note that if your 3D print is larger than the sizes listed above, there are a few ways that this can be dealt with. The file can be shrunk down to fit, or it can be printed in pieces and then assembled afterwords. A third option is to work with a different MakerSpace with larger printers, check our list of other area makerspaces to find one that can better accommodate your needs. Contact us to discuss how to best deal with large print needs. 3D Printer Filament We primarily work with pure PLA filament in a variety of different colors. We have the capability to print with other material types, however we don’t stock them normally in the lab, and we ask that you contact us to discuss printing with any other filament besides what the lab normally stocks. The UMass Boston MakerSpace does not print ABS filament, as our lab does not have proper ventilation needed for this material. Software applications AutoDesk Fusion 360 and the Adobe Creative Suite are installed on our computers. If there are other apps you would like us to acquire, please contact us . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms