Services for Faculty & Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Dean Of Students Services for Faculty & Staff Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Emergency Aid Fund Services for Faculty & Staff Forms Resources for Parents And Families Referral & Complaint Forms Resources for Students Services for Students Contact Us Student Conduct Process Current Students Resources for Faculty and Staff Emergencies If this is an Emergency, please contact UMass Boston Police at 617.287.1212 or local police by dialing 911. The Dean of Students Office serves as consultants for faculty and staff who have concerns about students they teach or employ. We seek to serve as a “one stop” for community members who are concerned about a student in crisis. The office also provides support and notification in the event of a student's death. Concerned About a Student? Any member of the University of Massachusetts Boston community may come into contact with a distressed student. Many students come to the attention of faculty or staff through journal entries, papers, or shifts in behavior, mood, appearances, etc. Being aware of distress signals, methods of intervention, and sources of help for the student can help you assist the student. If your situation is urgent but not life threatening, the Dean of Students Office is available to provide assistance to faculty and staff with issues ranging from health and wellness, threatening or disruptive behavior, and other safety issues. Responding to Students in Distress: Quick Reference Guide Responding to Students in Distress folder To refer a student to our office, please submit a Care Case Management Referral Form . Code of Conduct The Dean of Students Office oversees the s tudent conduct process and the Student Code of Conduct . FERPA Our staff is bound by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and with the exception of a crisis situation, the Dean of Students Office shares information about student concerns only on a need-to-know basis to the extent permitted by FERPA. Care The Dean of Students Office collaborates to provide seamless communication and outreach which fosters student growth, development, and success by providing intervention, outreach, resources, referrals, advocacy, and follow up services. The Dean of Students Office reviews reports and helps identify students who are struggling to navigate the university system, students with current and emerging mental or physical health issues, and students experiencing issues adjusting to academic and social life. Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) The mission of the BIT is to evaluate and address student behavior that raises concerns for the health and well-being of a student or members of the community.  BIT will coordinate the resources of the University to intervene and provide necessary supports. BIT will address student behaviors that are disruptive and may include health and well-being and/or safety concerns. Class Attendance Guidelines For information on the University Class Attendance Guidelines and the Notice of Absence guidelines, please review this page . Student's may  submit a request for a Notice of Absence (NOA) letter when they are absent for 3 or more consecutive days.  We will notify faculty that the student supplied documentation that meets the requirements for receiving an NOA. We do not share their documents or any personal information unless requested by the student. Students are responsible for contacting their faculty to make up missed work. Resources and Tools for Faculty Embracing Inclusive Approaches to Attendance Policies and Student Absenteeism Teaching in Times of Crisis UMB Student Suicide Intervention Protocol Wellbeing Support Syllabus Statement Examples See Also University Space Use Policy University’s Excused Absence Policy Dean of Students Office Campus Center, Floor 2 617.287.5800 dean.students@umb.edu If this is an emergency call the UMass Boston Police at 617.287.7777 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms