Ipads In The Classroom - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Technovation Ipads In The Classroom Menu menu Menu About The Technovator Completed Projects Current Projects Ipads In The Classroom Technovate With Us iPads in the Classroom 2.0 iPad Proposal Form Call for Proposals IT/Ed Tech announces an opportunity for faculty to submit a proposal to use iPads to enhance teaching and learning during Spring 2022 and Fall 2022 semesters. Interested faculty should complete the online form  by January 7th 2022. A total of five proposals will be selected and each faculty will receive an iPad (loaner) for two semesters. Proposal Form and Agreement The Proposal Form and Agreement is available for download at: https://www.umb.edu/technovation/ipad_in_the_classroom . IT, Technovator Staff and eLearning consultants are available to meet with faculty prior to the proposal deadline to discuss project proposals, recommend apps and app bundles. Faculty members teaching in Spring 2022 and/or Fall 2022 are eligible for the program. Contact: ipad.classroom@umb.edu to request to meet with a consultant. Proposal Categories The Committee is soliciting project proposals in two general areas, but any innovative project that supports teaching and learning will be considered eligible: iPad as a Teaching Tool: Get an iPad for you to use in the classroom as a digital white board, a presentation tool or using any of the other 500,000+ iPad apps. Two Faculty recipients, one iPad each iPad as a Learning Tool: Deploy a mobile cart of iPads to your classroom for student individual, pair or group use, depending on class size. Three faculty recipients, one iPad each. Project Timeline: Important Events Program announcement: December 2, 2021. Program proposals due: January 7, 2022. Participants notified: January 14, 2022. Initial Meeting with Participants: Via Zoom and in-Person January 17, 2022. Participant presentations of reports: End of Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 TBA. Return iPad: Within two weeks of the end of Fall semester 2022 or Spring 2023 in which iPad was used. Questions? Contact ipad.classroom@umb.edu . Technovator @ The Taylor Center, UMass Boston 3rd Floor of Wheatley, Room 133 technovation@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms