Year In Review - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Economics Year In Review Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Resources for Students Teaching Goals English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Year in Review Economics Year in Review 2021-2022 Seminars Series The department invited guest speakers to give talks on topics of interest to the department faculty as well as the broader university community. The department has a plan to bring in high profile speakers next year. See flyers and photos seminar presentations from last year here: Seminar Series. Honors dinner We didn’t have our annual honors dinner this year, but we still recognized and honored outstanding students from this year’s graduating class virtually. The department gave out four named departmental awards to outstanding students and recognized students for distinction in economics. Winners of the Spitz Scholarship Award and Joanne P. Stewart Scholarship awards were also announced at this event..  See winners here: Honors Award Winners Faculty Updates Faculty members have been busy with teaching, scholarly activities, and much more. See updates here . SSL Awards Second Round of Seed Grants and Summer Funding for Anti-Racist Research. Keren M. Horn , associate professor of economics, College of Liberal Arts, and Dania V. Francis , assistant professor of economics, College of Liberal Arts, are exploring the employment impacts of natural hazards, particularly for lower-income and minority individuals in their study titled, “Hurricanes, Floods, and Fires: What are the Employment Impacts of Climate Change?” Read more here. UMass Boston Study Confirms Benefits of Unions A recent research report titled “ The Union Effect in Massachusetts ,” part of a new series called Massachusetts Labor Matters, has been published by the Labor Resource Center (LRC) and the Department of Economics at the University of Massachusetts Boston. The series, sponsored by the Future of Work Initiative, explores labor and working-class life in the state of Massachusetts between 2010 and 2017. Written by professors of economics Randy Albelda and Michael Carr, and Brian Fitzpatrick ’19, who graduated with an MA in economics from UMass Boston, the inaugural issue analyzes the “union wage effect,” or the difference between the wages, earnings, and benefits in union and non-union jobs. Tools & Resources Academic Advising Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Support Blackboard Bookstore Bursar Career Services & Internships Course Catalog Healey Library Honors College Registrar Scholarships Study Abroad UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms