Executive Summary - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology About Information Technology Project Management Office Executive Summary Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Mission, Vision & Values Policies IT Outcomes Reports Student Jobs Project Management Office Definition Of A Project Executive Summary Goals Methodology Project Closing Phase Project Execution Control Phase Project Initiation Phase Project Lifecycle Overview Project Planning Phase Workflow Executive Summary EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The UMass Boston Information Technology Division has developed a Project Management Methodology as a means of achieving a greater degree of success in its technology projects.  The Project Management Methodology serves as a guide to the organization as it selects its projects, to project teams as they plan the work, to management as they supply the required oversight, and to Sponsors and Customers as they collaborate in the design and delivery.  This methodology is designed to be consistent with the Project Management Institute’s Guide to Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK). The Information Technology Project Management Methodology is designed to provide an organization wide project management capability based on a common language, a practical set of skills, and a robust methodology, with appropriate support tools for maximizing productivity and effectiveness in completing projects successfully, on time, and within budget.  The larger intention of this effort is to develop a standard for project management practices and procedures across all aspects of the institutional technology landscape.  The Project Management Methodology includes documentation, templates, and other tools to assist the project managers and project teams in scoping, planning, and executing projects. PROJECT MANAGEMENT METHODOLOGY OVERVIEW The Project Management Methodology is used to describe a deliberate, structured, and methodical process for Project Management.  The Project Management Methodology has four phases: Initiating, Planning, Executing, and Closing.  Each project phase addresses a specific aspect of the process of managing a project from the initial request through the project closure. Initiating Project Chartering – The Project Team should conduct high-level Business Process Analysis sessions (if necessary) to define the preliminary project goals, scope, roles, costs, and timeline. The Project Chartering process delivers a draft Project Charter.  The dates for some project milestones may not be available to the Project Charter during the Initiating Process. Project Charter Approval – The Project Charter is approved by the PMO Director and the Project Sponsor(s). Phase Gate:  Approval of the Project Charter allows the project to advance to the Planning Phase Planning Project Planning - The Project Team should conduct detail level Business Process Analysis sessions (if necessary) to define the tasks, roles, and schedule producing a draft project plan.  The project deliverables and milestone dates are finalized for inclusion in the project plan. Project Plan Approval – The Project Team works to gain acceptance of the draft project plan.  Approval of the project plan by the PMO Director produces the approved project plan. Phase Gate:  Approval of the Project Plan allows the project to advance to the Executing Phase and the project work to commence. Executing Project Execution – Project Teams execute the approved project plans. Project Managers provide weekly status updates. Project Oversight – The Project Management Office conducts weekly project reviews to insure project teams are progressing toward completion according to the approved project plan and adhering to Project Management best practices defined in the Project Management Methodology.  The Project Management Office conducts regular Project Oversight Meetings with all project managers to monitor the project portfolio and evaluate interdependencies between projects. Project Completed – The Project Manager and the PMO Director conduct closeout readiness review to ensure that all deliverables have been produced and accepted by the Project Sponsor. Phase Gate:  Completion of the closeout readiness review allows the project to proceed to the Closing Phase. Closing Project Closeout - The Project Manager schedules the Project Closeout Meeting with the Project Team and the Project Sponsor.  The Project Manager produces the Project Closeout Report which assesses project outcomes, team performance, and lessons learned.  The Project Closeout report is approved by the Project Sponsor(s) before the project is closed in the PPMS. Phase Gate:  Approval of the Project Closeout Report allows the project to formally terminate.  Resources are released and the project is closed in the PPMS. IT Project Management Office Bayside Building, 5th Floor 617.287.5274 pmo@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms