About - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give About UMass Boston Home About About menu About Leadership & Administration Mission Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information Empowering Each Other to Build a Better World UMass Boston students don’t just attend classes. Beacons are ready to tackle challenges in their careers, neighborhoods, and beyond. They rise to the occasion. They learn at the most diverse campus in New England, one that celebrates their identities and unique experiences. UMass Boston students benefit from our commitment to teaching and research. They enjoy the beautiful oceanfront campus and the close proximity to downtown Boston , unlocking a world of opportunities . Learn more about how UMass Boston prepares students to create a more just, inclusive world. About menu About Leadership & Administration Mission Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information Watch Video A University for the Times UMass Boston is entering a new era of world-renowned leadership, unprecedented expansion plans, and a renewed focus on equity and student success. We're the most diversity university campus in New England, and the third most diverse in the US. Learn more about our research, endowment, and plans for the future. Boston's Only Public Research University Explore the mysteries of quantum theory, harness the power of lasers for electronic device improvement, and contribute to the advancement of autism education resources. UMass Boston provides you with unparalleled access to specialized programs and opportunities tailored to your field of study. With cutting-edge laboratories and expert faculty, students are encouraged to lead or collaborate on projects aligned with their passions, whether driving social equity or pushing scientific boundaries. Explore Our Research By the Numbers 16:1 student-to-faculty ratio 100+ majors and minors to choose from $61.1 million in research funding per year 136 We have students from all over the world. In fall 2020, international students from 136 countries were enrolled. 3,671 Nearly 4,000 students graduated from UMass Boston in 2020. Popular programs are psychology, biology, and exercise and health sciences. 16,259 In fall 2020, UMass Boston had 16,259 students. Our Honors College serves 692 students who enjoy a challenge. Diversity & Inclusion UMass Boston takes pride in being the third most diverse college campus in the country. We provide a variety of resources and training to ensure a welcoming and safe environment for all. Check out our programs and events. Learn About Our Diversity & Inclusion Efforts Who We Are 66% of new students identify as BIPOC 52% of students speak two or more languages 51% of new students are Pell-Grant eligible Waterfront Campus in Boston What’s better than living in Boston, one of the best college towns in the country? Enjoy studying on 120 acres of waterfront property that overlooks the city and Boston Harbor. Our campus shuttles and convenient public transportation options mean downtown Boston is just minutes away. You’ll be able to work in and explore this dynamic and historic city. Visit UMass Boston Boston: America's College Town Keep Exploring History of UMass Boston Learn about the founding of our university and its goals for the future. Accreditation & Rankings Discover why we’re proud to be one of the top-rated universities in America. Leadership & Administration Meet Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco and the rest of our leadership. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms