Privacy & Terms - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Privacy & Terms Menu menu Menu Privacy & Terms The University of Massachusetts Boston (UMass Boston) does not sell or share confidential user information with any outside party, unless we are required by law. Web traffic on www.umb.edu is logged and analyzed, using cookies and other analytics tools to help us determine how to improve our site. We use our data collection forms to expedite users' voluntary requests for information, but no information will be used to identify or contact individual users of the site against their wishes. A cookie, small files created by a website and stored on a user’s computer, allows for our website to provide you with a better experience by storing your preferences and history. Cookies can be disabled in your browser.  For more information about cookies, visit www.allaboutcookies.org . GDPR This website is intended for general use and is viewable on the internet throughout the world. If you are visiting this website from the European Union (EU), personal information you provide to the university may now be subject to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The GDPR replaces the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC and was designed to strengthen data privacy protections for EU residents. For more information visit https://www.massachusetts.edu/gdpr which provides information regarding the ways in which the University of Massachusetts Boston has addressed GDPR as a means to protects its students, employees and alumni that might be protected by GDPR. Copyright & Acceptable Use All trademarks, service marks and trade names (e.g., the UMass Boston name, the lighthouse, and B insignia) are owned, registered and/or licensed by the UMass Boston. All text, images, logos, and information contained on the UMass Boston website may not be used or reproduced without permission. It is the responsibility of all parties storing materials on web pages with umb.edu domain addresses to ensure that such material does not violate other parties' proprietary rights and does not otherwise violate the U.S. copyright act or university policy. UMass Boston reserves the right to delete material that is in violation of the copyright act or university policy. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms