UMass Boston Hosts Inauguration  - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News UMass Boston Hosts Inauguration Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Hosts the Inauguration of Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco on April 5 03/22/2024 |
    Office of Communications Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco is set to be officially installed as the 9th chancellor of the University of Massachusetts Boston in a distinguished Inauguration Ceremony scheduled for Friday, April 5. This ceremonial event is a pivotal component of a broader full day Inauguration Celebration , featuring a series of diverse events, including a ribbon cutting on the new campus Quad, musical performances, and an academic symposium. All campus community members and invited guests are encouraged to attend as the university honors the accomplishments of its community and looks to its future. Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco assumed the role of UMass Boston's chancellor on August 1, 2020. Previously, he served as the inaugural UCLA Wasserman dean at UCLA’s Graduate School of Education & Information Studies. “Literally, we will celebrate the transformation of the Quad, and symbolically, the transformational change under the leadership of the provost, of the vice chancellors, of the deans, of the chairs, and of the faculty of our campus,” Chancellor Suárez-Orozco said. “It is a new beginning for UMass Boston and our campus community.” The inauguration comes as the university formally unveils its new campus Quad, the centerpiece of campus, with a celebratory ribbon cutting. The new sustainable green quad is the culmination of 15 years of planning, and features sloping green lawns, dozens of trees, and a network of ADA-compliant pathways. Also present are a new basketball court, a staircase and elevator to Healey Library, a new student lounge space in the Clark Athletic Center, and a brightly lit new parking lot. “I did not want to have my installation prior to the opening of our campus Quad. In a way, this is a moment of twin celebrations,” he said. “We’re celebrating the new campus and the extraordinary work that really announces the new chapter in the journey of UMass Boston- UMass Boston 2.0. I hope all of you will join us for this very significant moment.” For more information on the in inauguration, visit https://www.umb.edu/uec/special-events/inauguration/ Inaugural Events include: Wednesday, April 3 Chancellor’s Lecture Series: “Impacts of Climate Change on Global Public Health” Join us for an in-depth discussion with physician and climate advocate Dr. Vanessa Kerry , founder and CEO of the nonprofit Seed Global Health and Special Envoy for Climate Change and Health for the World Health Organization. Campus Center Ballroom 12-1 p.m. Friday, April 5 New Campus Quad Ribbon-Cutting Ceremony The official ribbon-cutting and opening of the new campus Quad. UMass Boston Quad 9:45 a.m. Inauguration Ceremony The formal ceremony to install Marcelo Suárez-Orozco as the Ninth Chancellor of the University of Massachusetts Boston Clark Athletic Center 11:00 a.m. Lunch Reception Lunch reception for the UMass Boston community and guests visiting campus for the Inauguration celebrations. UMass Boston Campus Immediately Following the Inauguration Ceremony Academic Symposium Concurrent academic sessions featuring keynote speakers and panel discussions. Campus Center Ballroom 2:30-4:00 p.m. Session Topics Climate Change: From Climate Crises to Climate Resilience Education for the Future: University Assisted Community Schools Health & Wellness: Confronting Inequity in Healthcare UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms