Census - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Institute for Asian American Studies Census Menu menu Menu About Census Decennial Census 2020 Publications Research U.S. Census The Institute for Asian American Studies has produced tables and reports of U.S. Census data on Asian Americans and other racial/ethnic groups in Massachusetts since 1995. Our latest report is: Asian Americans in Massachusetts including Boston and other selected cities: Data from the 2020 Decennial Census and American Community Survey . Please see the addendum here: Addendum June 2024 The Decennial Census is conducted every ten years and provides the most accurate counts of people in the nation, states, and smaller geographical areas, as well as information about age, sex, race and ethnicity, homeownership, and household composition. Please see our Decennial Census 2020 page for selected population tables. The American Community Survey (ACS), conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, is a nationwide survey that collects detailed socio-economic information on a sample of U.S. households every year. The data is released as one-year and five-year estimates. Annual estimates contain the more timely information but have smaller sample sizes and are available only for geographic areas or groups with populations of 65,000 or larger. The five-year estimates are based on data collected in five consecutive years and therefore have larger sample sizes, but the data is less timely. All of our census publications are available on ScholarWorks . For more about U.S. Census Bureau, go to https://www.census.gov . To search for U.S. Census data, go to https://data.census.gov . Institute for Asian American Studies Healey Library 10-7 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125-3393 asianaminst@umb.edu 617.287.5650 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms