Off Campus Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home All of Us Black Men Community Off Campus Resources Menu menu Menu AAPI Black Men Academics Career Success Chancellor Statement Diversity Affirmative Action Community Off Campus Resources On Campus Resources Crisis Support File A Complaint Black Women Inclusive Identity Latinidad Native American & Indigenous Pride Racial Climate Survey Off-Campus Resources Resources that are available to members of the Boston-area community. Foster Care Transition Toolkit | This toolkit serves to inspire and support youth currently in foster care and young adults who have aged out of care to pursue college and career opportunities. As students prepare to transition to adult life in today’s economy, it’s important to be prepared to independently make decisions, advocate for personal needs, manage financial or health concerns as well as secure housing and transportation. Bottom Line | Bottom Line was founded on the belief that students need a mentor and a guide during the college application process and throughout college to succeed. By providing consistent one-on-one support, Bottom Line has helped thousands of first-generation students from low-income backgrounds stay in college and complete their degrees. Bottom Line is a non-profit organization that is nearly 100% privately funded; they are currently serving over 8,000 students in their journeys to college. Boston Men's Dinner Group | For approximately 20 years, The Boston Men’s Dinner Group has convened men of color to exchange information and ideas in informal settings. BMDG was formed after a small group of men of color got together over dinner to discuss the topics of the day, establish new relationships and reconnect with old friends. Through this social forum, BMDG has connected hundreds of men in the Greater Boston area and helped build lasting friendships and business partnerships for professional men of color. There is not a formal webpage for this group, however, students can sign up to follow the men who organize this through EventBrite. They usually advertise their dinners there and on Facebook. They hold these dinners multiple times throughout the year. Here is the link to their most recent EventBrite announcement. NAACP Boston | The mission of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is to ensure the political, educational, social, and economic equality and rights of all persons and to eliminate racial hatred and racial discrimination. The Boston NAACP chapter was established in 1911 and is widely recognized as the first chartered branch of the NAACP in the country. Southern Poverty Law Center | The SPLC is a catalyst for racial justice in the South and beyond, working in partnership with communities to dismantle white supremacy, strengthen intersectional movements, and advance the human rights of all people. Freedom House | Freedom House was created to transform the economic and cultural fabric of high-need communities through education and leadership development. Their core values include legacy, progress, and persistence; education; diversity and cultural competency; leadership; integrity and accountability. Union of Minority Neighborhoods | Union of Minority Neighborhoods organizes and trains people of color and low-income people to end discriminatory policies and practices that limit our access to political, economic and social power. Concerned Black Men of Massachusetts / Paul Robeson Institute for Positive Self Development | In the fall of 1989, The Concerned Black Men of Massachusetts, Inc. (CBMM), under the leadership auspices of its Standing Committee on Education initiated The Paul Robeson Institute for Positive Self-Development (PRI). PRI was founded to provide a vehicle of educational, emotional and personal support to young Black males and their families. My Brother's Keeper Boston | My Brother's Keeper Boston plans to disrupt social, economic, and educational barriers. The MBK initiative will tackle these challenges through the following four main impact areas: education, workforce development, pathways towards success, and community-based organizational (CBO) funding. Trans People of Color Coalition | The Trans People of Color Coalition (TPOCC) is an organization founded by attorney, professor and activist Kylar Broadus. TPOCC is a national social justice organization that promotes the interest of trans people of color. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms