English - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni English Home Liberal Arts Departments English Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English Faculty & Staff Student Resources Composition Program Research & Impact Contact History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Welcome to the English Department With a broad offering of programs, a strong connection to the community, and a socially-engaged faculty committed to their students, the English Department at UMass Boston is an exciting place to be! For contact information about Composition and English major classes, transfer credits, and all other questions, please scroll to the bottom of the page! Request Info Apply Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Creative Writing Minor English BA English Minor English Teaching Licensure Literary History Minor Professional Writing & New Media Minor Race, Ethnicity & Literature Minor Graduate Programs English MA Creative Writing MFA About Our Department English Department programs focus on the intersection of literature, rhetoric and composition, creative writing, and visual culture. As an English major or minor, you will engage with the imaginative worlds and diverse perspectives that texts create—worlds and perspectives created and shared by dynamic writers, responsive readers, and innovative teachers. The English major is flexible: it both gives all students an essential writing and literature base, and it allows students to explore areas of interest in the upper-and lower-level electives, including through concentrations in Creative Writing; Professional and New Media Writing; Race, Ethnicity, and Literature; and English Teaching . Or you might be interested in an English minor or a minor in one of our specialized concentrations. We know that our students attend college to prepare themselves to be active, engaged members of society and to find success in meaningful careers. Our programs provide a wide range of skills and capabilities that enable students to find success and to make a difference. Why Study English at UMass Boston? What makes UMass Boston the place to study English? A Strong Engagement with Boston As Boston’s only public university, UMass Boston engages with the city, its people, and its resources in ways that enrich our students’ learning experiences and our community: Learning opportunities with field trips to historical literary sites, visits to museums, and hands-on activities at local libraries and archives such as the Boston Athenaeum and our neighbors, the Massachusetts State Archives and the Kennedy Presidential Library. A unique “Experiencing Boston” course sequence that connects literary study to Boston history and culture, focusing on generating creative approaches to studying and experiencing urban space. A course sequence focused on Boston Harbor, the Harbor Islands, and the diverse coastal communities that surround them with a focus on environmental justice. A Socially-Engaged, World-Class Faculty The English faculty is committed to the social relevance of literary study and the study of composition and rhetoric, and how they can be used to advance ideas—for better or for worse. A Connection to the Community Partnerships with local organizations get our English students out into the community, where they work as interns, tutors, and volunteers, expanding upon their classroom learning. A Diverse Student Body This variety of perspectives, backgrounds, and life experiences enable students to discuss course material in broader contexts. A Commitment to Multi-Lingual Students The English Department directs the university’s ESL Center, which serves students whose native language is not English. The ESL Center offers coursework in speaking, listening, and reading and writing for academic purposes. Why Major in English Our English programs are built on the assumption that creativity is essential to the human condition and that we must understand the imaginative works of fiction, non-fiction, poetry, drama, film, graphic literature, and new media writing that our culture creates. In our courses, while you have fun engaging with these imaginative works, you learn essential skills of reading, writing, interpretation, critical and creative thinking—skills that are in high demand in all careers. What will you learn in the English programs? As an English Major you will develop skills and abilities that are always in demand. An English degree on your résumé signals that you can read closely, write clearly, think critically, think creatively, and engage with complex ideas, which are skills employers want. See English Learning Goals for more specifics on what your English classes will teach you. What can you do with an English Degree? We know that our students attend college to prepare themselves to be active, engaged members of society and to find success in meaningful careers. Our programs provide a wide range of skills and capabilities that enable students to find success and to make a difference. See Careers in English for information on the wide range of careers and professional opportunities available to English majors. See Alumni Spotlight for stories on recent alumni. Writing Center We offer guidance on all forms of writing from class essays to cover letters to dissertations and much more. Composition Program Special program offered within the English department focuses on adapting to new writing contexts by knowledge and practices Resources Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Resources for Students Graduate Student Assistantships CLA First! This CLA First! first-year course emphasizes the study of Boston culture, history, and literature, featuring exciting field trips into Boston.  We focus on generating analytical and creative approaches to studying--and experiencing--urban spaces. Boston Is Our Laboratory Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising English Department For questions about English 101 and 102 classes, please contact the Composition Program: composition@umb.edu . For questions about classes in the English major and department events, please contact the English Department main email: English.Department@umb.edu . For questions about transfer credits into the major and minors, major requirements, and study abroad credits, please contact the Undergraduate Program Director: hugh.oconnell@umb.edu . Location: Wheatley Hall, 6th Floor Phone: 617.287.6700 Department Chair UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms