Applying to the IRB - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Applying to the IRB Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Applying to the IRB Managing an IRB Protocol Required Training Deadlines And Meetings Do You Need IRB Review Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Applying to the IRB Kuali Protocols (Log In Here) All PIs and research personnel must follow the requirements in the Investigator Manual (HRP-103) . Use the following tools and learn about the types of IRB review to guide you through the application process. After obtaining initial IRB approval, the PI is responsible for managing the IRB protocol . All submission forms are online in Kuali. Any questions can be directed to our IRB team . Please provide your IRB ID number and PI name so that we can best assist you. Kuali IRB Instructional Materials Kuali UMass Boston IRB User Manual (pdf) - Detailed guides How to Navigate Legacy Studies (pdf) Detailed Kuali Instructional Videos (YouTube) - Basic guides Creating a New IRB Protocol (HRP-211) (3:23) Basic How to Submit an Amendment (HRP-213) (1:52) Basic How to Submit a Renewal (HRP-212) (2:03) Basic How to Close Your Protocol (HRP-212) (1:40) Basic How to Respond to the IRB (2:51) Basic How to Navigate Legacy Studies (3:03) Basic Fall 2022 Protocol Update (2:51) Basic Option to build investigator protocol entirely online Kuali Quick Tips - Troubleshooting tips Kuali Research - Knowledge Base - General documentation related to the Protocols module in Kuali Research Forms and Templates Starting Monday, March 21, 2022, create a new study application online in Kuali by selecting IRB Application (Basic Study Information) Form (HRP-211) as the submission type. The same form is used for exemption requests, and there is no need to indicate a request for exemption or IRB review type. All new studies submitted to the IRB will require the following documents: protocol (investigator study plan) and any related study documents (e.g., informed consent, survey instrument, recruitment materials). Submit related documents in Word format. Researchers should use the Protocol template HRP-503 (either in Word or build entirely in Kuali) to draft their investigator protocols. All study documents (consents, data collection instruments, recruitment materials, etc.) will continue to be attachments uploaded to Kuali by the researcher. HRP-503 Protocol Template Use this Word template (or build entirely in Kuali) Consent_Form_template_5.15.24 *new logo* Consent_Form_recording_form_7.28.22.doc *new logo* Assent_Form_sample_7.28.22.doc *new logo* HIPAA Waiver request After obtaining initial IRB approval, the PI is responsible for submissions to the IRB to amend, renew, request close, and report events for their study. For more information, visit our web page for Managing an IRB Protocol . Reliance on External IRB Requests Starting Monday, March 21, 2022, requests to rely on an external IRB for review of a study can be submitted to the UMass Boston IRB online in Kuali by creating a new study and selecting Request for External Reliance (form HRP-811) as the submission type. The researcher should confirm with the external IRB that they are willing to be the reviewing IRB before submitting the request to UMass Boston IRB. IRB staff will review the request and assist with executing a reliance agreement. Reliance agreements are generally restricted to non-exempt human research (with some exceptions such as for exempt categories with limited IRB review). Investigator Manual and HRPP Plan Investigator Manual (HRP-103) A "one-stop shop" to guide investigators through the policies and procedures related to the conduct of human research at UMass Boston. Investigator Manual - Appendices (HRP-103a) Additional guidance and requirements to supplement the Investigator Manual. Human Research Protection Program (HRPP) Plan (HRP-101) An overview of the mission and components of the HRPP at UMass Boston. IRB Guidance on GDPR Investigators planning to conduct research involving “personal data” about individuals located in European Union member states plus Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Switzerland need to be aware of these additional EU General Data Protection Regulations. We thank Brown University IRB for sharing this resource with us. IRB Guidance on SONA Investigators using the SONA system for participant recruitment need to be aware of these additional reviews and considerations. We thank UMass Lowell IRB for sharing SONA guidance with us. UMass Boston COVID-19 policies If you have any questions, please reach out to the Office of Environmental Health and Safety (OEHS) at umbehs@umb.edu . IRB Checklists, Worksheets, and SOPs IRB checklists, worksheets, and standard operating procedures (SOPs) are used by the IRB in making regulatory decisions. These tools offer researchers insight into what the IRB is reviewing in protocols. Researchers do not need to fill out these documents. They are for reference only. Checklists: Waiver of Alteration of Consent Process Checklist (HRP-410) Waiver of Written Documentation of Consent Checklist (HRP-411) Prisoners Checklist (HRP-415) Children Checklist (HRP-416) Adults Lacking Decision Making Capacity Checklist (HRP-417) HIPAA Waiver of Authorization Checklist (HRP-441) Worksheets: Human Research Determination Worksheet (HRP-310) Engagement Determination Worksheet (HRP-311) Exemption Determination Worksheet (HRP-312) Expedited Review Worksheet (HRP-313) Criteria for Approval Worksheet (HRP-314) Advertisements Worksheet (HRP-315) Payments Worksheet (HRP-316) Additional Federal Agency Criteria Worksheet (HRP-318) Limited IRB Review and Broad Consent Worksheet (HRP-319) Note: Broad consent is not implemented at this institution Review of Information Items (HRP-321) FERPA Compliance Worksheet (HRP-331) Certificate of Confidentiality Worksheet (HRP-333) SOPs: Definitions SOP (HRP-001) LARs, Children, and Guardians SOP (HRP-013) Informed Consent Process SOP (HRP-090) Written Documentation of Consent SOP (HRP-091) What type of review does your study require? Read below to learn the differences between exempt, expedited, and full Board review. Researchers themselves do not determine the type of IRB review -- only the IRB can make this determination. Formal IRB approval (or exempt determination) is required prior to conducting human research. *Submissions received after 5 PM ET are considered received the next business day (excluding holidays/campus closures ). The IRB operates year-round. Submissions are placed in queue to accommodate all applicants. Exempt: Certain categories of human research are exempt from regulation but require initial IRB review. Ongoing IRB review and approval is not always needed after obtaining the initial exempt determination. Some new exempt categories (i.e., category 2 iii) also require a type of expedited review called "limited IRB review" (see Limited IRB Review Worksheet (HRP-319 )." Note: Exempt human research is NOT the same as activities which are " not human research ." Application deadline: None. Accepted and reviewed on a rolling basis. Review timeframe: within about 3 weeks* Expedited: Certain categories of non-exempt human research may qualify for review using the expedited procedure, meaning that the study may be approved by a single designated IRB reviewer, rather than by the full Board. Human research that poses minimal risk to human subjects and falls under one or more permissible expedited categories are eligible for expedited review. Application deadline: None. Accepted and reviewed on a rolling basis. Review timeframe: within about 3 weeks* Full Board: Non-exempt human research that does not qualify for review using the expedited procedure (e.g., research presenting greater than minimal risk to participants and/or research procedures not all within the expedited review categories) must be reviewed at a convened meeting of the full Board. Application deadline: See Deadlines And Meetings Review timeframe: within about one week after the meeting date Related Links Clinical Trial Definition (NIH) Clinical Trial Decision Tool (NIH) Code of Federal Regulations (DHHS) Data Protection & Export Control/International Travel (UMass Boston) Data Security Services (UMass Boston IT/Research Computing) FERPA Guidance (UMass Boston Office of the Registrar) FERPA Guidance (U.S. Department of Education) GDPR Compilation of Guidances (DHHS) Gift Card Request Process (UMass Boston) HIPAA Guidance (DHHS) Human Subjects - Frequently Asked Questions (NIH) Information Technology Services (UMass Boston IT) Information Technology Services - Data Security Guidelines (UMass Boston IT) International Research Guidance (DHHS) OneDrive Online File Storage (UMass Boston IT) Online Survey Protection References Payment to Research Subjects (FDA) Recruiting Study Subjects (FDA) Social-Behavioral Research Standards (DHHS) UMass Boston Research Home Page Zoom Video Conferencing (UMass Boston IT) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms