Read the Assessment of the Africana Studies - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2022 Read the Assessment of the Africana Studies Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Read the Assessment of the Africana Studies Department and the Trotter Institute 09/07/2022 |
    Prince Lobel Tye, LLP Following are frequently asked questions (FAQs) about the assessment: Read the Executive Summary of Report on Assesment conducted by Prince Lobel Tye, LLP. Q: Why did the university hire an outside firm to do an assessment of the Africana Studies Department and the Trotter Institute? A: Africana Studies and the Trotter have faced challenges over the past several years that have led to high staff turnover. It is not uncommon for universities to seek an outside, objective assessment of a particular area to improve its effectiveness. The law firm of Prince Lobel Tye—in particular, attorneys Walter Prince, Dan Tarlow and Ralph Martin—were selected to conduct the assessment because of their strong experience assisting other higher education clients in reviewing academic, research, and student-related organizational functions. Q: How long did the assessment take? A: The law firm was engaged in January 2022 and began its work in April, which included extensive interviews and research. Their report was delivered to the university at the end of August, with the executive summary being released to the campus community on September 7, 2022. Q: How much did the assessment cost the university, and couldn’t that money have been better spent on staffing the department and institute? A: The Africana Studies Department and the Trotter Institute are essential to the university and are a high priority for UMass Boston. In order for them to effectively contribute to advancing the university’s academic, scholarly, and service mission, they require additional resources. The total cost of the assessment was $250,000, which represents the beginning of a series of investments in the department and institute to ensure their long-term viability. Q: What other investments will the university make? A: The university is committed to an initial investment in the department and institute of $1.9 million. This includes, for Africana Studies, hiring a senior scholar and two tenure-track faculty positions. For the Trotter Institute, the investments will include hiring a new director; a staff member to support grant-writing, communications, and collaboration with the other CANALA centers and institutes; funding a graduate assistantship; and increasing operational funding. Q: Why were two previous searches for faculty for Africana Studies canceled? A: The searches were canceled to allow the university to ensure that rigorous best practices were utilized and to better assess the long-term needs of the Africana Studies Department and the Trotter Institute. This assessment brought a better understanding of the nuances of their unique and rich histories and provided a foundation for making thoughtful plans for their futures. Q: How does canceling searches and changing the department chair of the Africana Studies Department fit with the administration’s goals and the university’s mission? A: The university believes that a thriving, engaged department and institute are essential to the objective of becoming a leading antiracist, health-promoting university. The assessment and hiring plans moving forward provide investments, commitments, and action steps that further the department’s contributions toward this objective. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms