Data Request - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Faculty & Staff Forms Data Request Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff FERPA Guidelines Forms Data Request Policy Reference Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Data Request Form This Web page is for internal, unofficial data requests from the Office of the Registrar, University of Massachusetts Boston. Please allow 10 business days for processing. All data will be delivered via secure delivery method. If you are representing an external entity and would like UMass Boston student directory information, please click here to make a public records request If you are a faculty member requesting a class roster. Please use this job aid to generate and download your roster via WISER. The Office of the Registrar does not provide "official data" for the purpose of grant applications, press releases, official reporting to outside agencies, etc. Official data is prepared and disseminated by the Office of Institutional Research, Assessment, and Planning. Office of Institutional Research, Assessment, and Planning Quinn Administration, 03, 00025 617-287-5420 inst.research@umb.edu https://www.umb.edu/oirap Requestor Information First Name: Last Name: Department: Campus Address: Phone: Email: (UMass emails ONLY!) Position: Faculty Staff Other If other, please explain: Request Information Purpose of Request: Who: Identify the Group of Students You Are Targeting. Example: Career code: GRAD, Program Code, CSM-G Fields: What Information Do You Want Included for Each Student Selected? Example: Email, Current Mailing Address, etc., *Please Note: 
Ethnic/Gender information must be approved by the Office of Diversity 
and Inclusion* list their email address* Calvin R Hill Have You or Your Department/Organization Asked for This Same Information Before? Yes No If Yes, Approximately When Was the Last Time? ( Year/Month) How Do You Intend to Use the Information? (e.g., do you plan to use the information to track students, send them 
mailings or contact them via telephone/email? Do you intend to use the 
data to produce reports about students? To whom would you provide such 
reports?) Whatever your intention, you are required to detail all uses 
of the data and attach to this request samples of any mailings you will 
produce (close-to-final drafts are acceptable as long as the text is in 
its final state). Note: should you later want to use the data for any other purpose, you MUST get approval from the Registrar's Office. If so, please describe the nature of these updates. Usually, we will 
suggest that you request updated reports from the Registrar's Office, 
rather than updating the data yourself. Who Will Have Access to This Data? ( Print Name/telephone extension) Please specify their names and UMass affiliations. Note that access must
 never be given to anyone other than those approved here. Please keep in
 mind that the Registrar's Office takes its responsibility to protect 
the confidentiality of UMass students very seriously. We expect you to 
have sufficient security measures in place to assure us that no 
information supplied to you by this office will be seen by any but the 
intended recipients, listed in this field. If any of this is unclear, or
 you have any questions about security and/or another aspect of the data
 request process, please feel free to email Sarah Bartlett . Buckley Amendment: Confidentiality Use of the data requested is governed by Federal law (P.L. 93-280 as 
amended, the "Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974," also 
known as FERPA), state statute (G.L. Chapter 66A, the "Fair Information 
Practices Act"), and University policy (Board of Trustees Document 
T77-059, "Fair Information Practices Regulations"). Recipients of such 
data are responsible for compliance with the subject acts, which govern 
the use and dissemination of educational records, as are those releasing
 such information. Signature of Requestor: NOTE: Checking this box indicates your "signature." Contact Information Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms