Frequently Asked Questions - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni English Language Program Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs English Language Program Frequently Asked Questions Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Talent Search Program Upward Bound Upward Bound Math-Science Urban Scholars Directions for Student Potential Pathways & Multilingual Programs English Language Program Application Process Curriculum Frequently Asked Questions English Language Program Fall & Spring Intensive English Summer Program Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office ELP Frequently Asked Questions Check the answers to some frequently asked questions about our English Language and University Preparation Program at UMass Boston. How much does the program cost? - General Tuition for regular semesters: $4,000 USD -Tuition cost for summer: $3,000 for 8 weeks - Estimated Cost of Living: $11,550 (rent, food, transport, books, gym membership, etc.) - Required Funds: $13,896 What does “Required Funds” mean? In order to apply and process your I-20, you must be able to demonstrate the required funds through a bank statement. These required funds show that you have the money available to pay for the required costs of living and taking classes in Boston. How do I apply to the program? If you press “Apply Now” on the website, you will be brought to our program’s application. When will acceptances be sent out? Our program is designed as a three year (six semester) program. Summer enrollment does not count towards the semester maximum. If a student is pursuing a recommendation to undergraduate studies, they can spend anywhere between one and six semesters. Please keep in mind that it is not possible for a student starting the program in the Summer to get a recommendation to the undergraduate program. What is the “Form I-20?” - The I-20 is an immigration document that allows you to schedule an appointment with someone at the U.S. Embassy for a visa interview. You need this document to start the process of coming to the United States. - You can find more information about the I-20 through the country’s immigration website. Read more about What is the “Form I-20?”  » When will I get my I-20? - After you apply and are conditionally accepted to our program, we will send you a link to have you apply for your I-20 through the Office of Global Programs. -After applying for your I-20, the office will process and contact you with any issues regarding your application. If everything is in order, your I-20 will be sent to you. *Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, I-20’s will be sent electronically, though email. We do not know if this practice will remain after the pandemic.* How do I pay my bill? - UMass bills are paid through our student portal, WISER. - When you sign into WISER, using your UMass Boston credentials and click “Finance and Financial Aid.” From there, click “Student Financial Center” and then “Payment Options.” You would then be able to view and pay your bill. Does UMass Boston offer options for payment plans for tuition? Yes. You could also sign up for a payment plan that would allow you to break up the tuition cost into smaller monthly payments. -The Bursar's Office offers a monthly payment plan for current semesters through Flywire. This is an interest-free way of paying tuition in equal monthly payments with a one-time non-refundable enrollment fee per semester. This non-refundable fee is charged by Flywire at time of enrollment. Read more about Does UMass Boston offer options for payment plans for tuition?  » Can I work or volunteer while I am attending UMass Boston on an F1 student visa? F-1 student visa holders may work on campus up to 20 hours per week during the academic year. However, work opportunities are very limited and should not be assumed or factored into your budget. Off-campus employment is not permitted for F-1 visa holders. Volunteer activities are permitted. Do I qualify for the U.S. government’s federal financial aid if I am an international student? No. F-1 students must submit documentation proving that they have the financial support to pay their tuition and do not qualify for the federal financial aid program. Are any immunizations required? If so, what are they? Yes, immunizations are required to study at UMass Boston. You can learn which ones at https://www.umb.edu/healthservices/screening_clinics/immunizations. - You should plan to update yours and/or bring documentation, or be prepared to obtain them as soon as you arrive in Boston. - You can also obtain immunizations at the UMass Boston Health Clinic, but unless you have adequate insurance or UMass Boston Student coverage, you will be responsible for payment. Read more about Are any immunizations required? If so, what are they?  » UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms