Undergraduate Prospective Students - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Business Student Resources Undergraduate Prospective Students Menu menu Menu Message from the Dean Student Resources Undergraduate Prospective Students Academic Departments Faculty & Staff Research & Impact BEST Boston Undergraduate Prospective Students We're excited you're considering the College of Management! Below you'll find everything you'll need to know. If you can’t find what you’re looking for, please reach out to the Undergraduate Program Office at upo@umb.edu . Programs of Study We offer two majors and a minor, with the option to specialize in many areas like Accounting, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Marketing, Computer Forensics, Business Intelligence, and more! Our Information Technology major provides a broad IT foundation with the opportunity to specialize in one of the following track areas : Business Intelligence, Computer Forensics, Information Architecture, or Systems Administration. Our Management major will expose you to the key functional areas of business and allow you to concentrate in one discipline as you prepare for your future. Our concentrations include: Accounting, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Information Systems & Business Analytics, International Management, Leadership & Organizational Change, Marketing, Interdisciplinary Business, Sports Business, and Supply Chain & Service Management. Our Management minor will take you to the next level in your business studies. Regardless of your academic experience will include courses from your major and outside your major to provide a well rounded academic experience. Your courses will be engaging and set you on the path to future success. Outside the Classroom You have a variety of opportunities to enhance your UMass Boston experience. From pursuing a minor to studying abroad, there is a lot for you to explore. Below are just a few areas we wanted to highlight. Study Abroad: The College works closely with our Office of Global Programs to identify Study Abroad programs that fit with our majors. CM students have studied at Oxford University, Korea University, and University of Mannheim, just to name a few. You can check out more details here . Bloomberg®: For those of you interested in enhancing your proficiency in Finance technology we offer the opportunity to become Bloomberg® Market Concepts (BMC) Certified. Bloomberg® Professional Service (BPS) is the industry standard for Finance and becoming certified as an undergraduate student gives you an edge on your peers in the job market. CM has a lab of 12 Bloomberg® terminals open only to CM students. Minors: As a business major student it is possible to study a field outside CM. Minors (typically 6 to 7 courses) are available in the College of Liberal Arts and the College of Science and Mathematics. Honors College : For those of you interested in taking your academics to the next level, you may consider joining the Honors College open to students in all majors. Beacon Voyages for Service : Beacon Voyages for Service (BVS) is one of the University’s standout programs through the Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement. Designed to encourage students to be engaged in service, BVS annually trains students to lead peers on social justice oriented service trips throughout the academic year. Why Employers Want to Hire You MAP: We listen to our students. We listen to our industry partners. We listen to our faculty and advisory board. And all that listening has resulted in a unique professional development program that will help you bridge the gap between learning and working.  The Management Achievement Program (MAP) consists of unique opportunities such as workshops, speaker series, on-site visits to companies, and networking events designed to expose students to a rich set of educational experiences that will better prepare them for a successful transition to a career in management. Students are required to complete MAP miles by attending applicable events throughout each semester. Internships: The College of Management and the Academic and Career Engagement and Success (ACES) center will partner with you to increase your career readiness. They will also guide you through the process of finding internship opportunities that suit your interests and goals. And when you do land a great internship, you will also be able to earn academic credit for your experience. First-Year Options The College of Management is proud to offer two specialized learning communities to enhance the academic and co-curricular experience for our students. LEAD: Learn. Engage. Achieve. Distinguish. A learning community for first year students in the College of Management. LEAD from your first day on campus by being a part of Management LEAD! This community helps you start and stay on track for graduation and is a great way to start making connections with friends and faculty that will enhance your college years. We'll even reserve you a seat in important classes during your first four semesters (and usually at really popular times). Other b enefits include: Academic advising from the College of Management from day one of enrollment Close relationships with peers through smaller classes Help getting acclimated from peer LEADers, who serve as upper-class mentors Integration with the Management Achievement Program Guaranteed seat in LEAD courses, making registration less stressful Enrollment in a special section of the Introduction to Business course, for management majors, or the Problem Solving course (IT 110), for information technology majors, in the first semester, providing early exposure to the fundamentals of business and information technology. 3YD: Three-Year Degree Pathway An opportunity to accelerate the time and cost to graduation. The College of Management offers a program for students to earn a bachelor of science in management in only three years. This program offers the existing degree requirements in a reformatted package coupled with additional support that will lead to an earlier graduation date and start to your career. Students who are accepted into the management major as a first year student for the fall semester will be eligible. Since this program is more academically strenuous, students will need to demonstrate their academic strength by earning at least a 3.25 GPA each semester. The options will allow you to complete 17–21 credits per semester, compared to the traditional 15 credits—3YD assumes a student enters with 9–12 college credits from AP, IB, or dual enrollment. You'll be able to enjoy the flexibility to complete an optional internship during the second summer of the program AND have the potential to save up to a year’s worth of tuition and fees This program is compatible with the university Honors College and campus involvement opportunities. Students will also have peer mentors as a resources in this program as they acclimate to college life and plan for their future. Transfer Student Options Transferring to UMass Boston is a seamless process designed to support your academic journey. In the College of Management we support transfer students' success in a variety of ways, including a unique learning community called TRAIL. This program is designed to help students have a smooth transition, get connected to mentors, and provides opportunities to meet other new students in the College. You'll gain access to: Reserved seats in classes that transfer students often need in their first semester Peer mentors Social and informative events Specialized academic advising Unique professional development workshops developed specifically for transfer students We also understand the importance of making it easy to transfer your credits. To help, we created the following overview sheets with the courses from your community college that will meet our requirements. Berkshire Community College Cape Cod Community College Bristol Community College Bunker Hill Community College MassBay Community College North Shore Community College Northern Essex Community College Quincy College Roxbury Community College Quinsigamond Community College Massasoit Community College How To Apply Ready to join UMass Boston! HOORAY! We couldn’t be more excited. Are you a first-year student? Get started here . Are you a transfer student? We make it easy . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms