- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Physics Student Named Finalist for Prestigious Nat Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Physics Student Named Finalist for Prestigious National Academic Award 07/30/2020 |
    DeWayne Lehman UMass Boston senior Joseph Farah has been named one of seven finalists for the American Physical Society's LeRoy Apker Award, regarded as the highest honor awarded to undergraduate physics students in the United States. “ I'm beyond excited to continue trying my best to make worthwhile contributions to science and society. ” “Joseph has been a standout student of physics since he came to our campus,” noted UMass Boston Interim Chancellor Katherine Newman. “He continues to pile up award after award as the rest of the world comes to recognize what we already know: he is a brilliant scientist with an extraordinary career ahead of him.” Farah has been a rising star in the Physics Department. Last fall the physics major and Honors College student shared in a $3 million Breakthrough Prize for being part of the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) Collaboration, which took the first image of a black hole. Farah was the only undergraduate on the 347-member team. Earlier last year, the Medford native was one of the 496 individuals nationwide to receive a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship , the preeminent award for undergraduates in the sciences, engineering, and mathematics. “This is a tremendous achievement and a recognition of Joseph's amazing accomplishments,” said Associate Professor Rahul Kulkarni, chair of the Department of Physics. “Joseph is an exceptional student and a researcher whose work holds great promise for continued high-impact contributions to science.” The award winner will be selected later this summer or in early fall, following a final round of academic competition. “It's truly an honor to have my research and academic ambition acknowledged, first with the Goldwater, and now with being named a finalist for this award,” said Farah. “I'm beyond excited to continue trying my best to make worthwhile contributions to science and society.” About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms