Federal Sponsors - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Funding Sources Federal Sponsors Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Funding Sources External Funding Databases Federal Sponsors Private Foundations State Sponsors Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Federal Sponsors As of June 13, 2015 The National Science Foundation (NSF) funds scientific research in a variety of domains. The NSF Guide to Programs for the current fiscal year is available online. Recent NSF funding announcements as well as FastLane access , an interactive real-time system used to conduct NSF business over the Internet, are also available online. The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (DHHS) funds research through the following offices and services. Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) National Institutes of Health (NIH) Directory of NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts NIH Requests for Proposals (RFP) Directory Peer Review at NIH (includes study sections ) NIH Grants Policies Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Other DHHS agencies The U.S. Department of Education funds programs to strengthen learning and teaching in elementary, secondary, and post-secondary educational institutions. The U.S. Department of Agriculture funds a variety of programs through the Cooperative State Research, Education and Extension Service. The U.S. Department of Commerce funds technology-oriented programs through the National Institutes of Standards and Technology and supports research in atmospheric and ocean sciences through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . The U.S. Department of Defense funds research through the following agencies. Air Force Office of Scientific Research Army Research Office Army Medical Research & Materiel Command Army Research Institute: Behavioral & Social Sciences Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency Office of Naval Research Naval Research Laboratory The U.S. Department of Energy funds research in the sciences. The U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development works to create opportunities for home ownership, provide housing assistance for low-income families, and help communities spur economic development in their own neighborhoods. The U.S. Department of the Interior provides natural resource administration grants through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service , and supports earth sciences research through the U.S. Geographical Survey . The U.S. Department of Justice funds research projects through the National Institute of Justice and the Office of Justice Programs . The U.S. Department of Labor fosters and promotes the welfare of U.S. job seekers, wage earners, and retirees. The U.S. Department of State provides funding opportunities for academic and nonprofit institutions seeking exchanges and training grants through the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Exchanges. The U.S. Department of Transportation oversees the formulation of national transportation policy and promotes intermodal transportation. The Corporation for Public Broadcasting offers grants for the development of radio and television programming. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency funds environmental research through the National Center for Environmental Research . The National Aeronautics and Space Administration conducts research in a number of areas dealing with aero and space science. The National Archives & Records Administration is the nation's national record keeper and works to ensure ready access to the essential evidence that documents the rights of U.S. citizens, the actions of federal officials, and the national experience. The National Endowment for the Arts provides national recognition and support to significant projects of artistic excellence. The National Endowment for the Humanities supports research, education, preservation, and public programs in the humanities. The U.S. Institute of Peace offers financial support for research, education and training, and the dissemination of information on international peace and conflict resolution. The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) supports long-term and equitable economic growth and advances U.S. foreign policy objectives by supporting: economic growth, agriculture, and trade; global health; and democracy, conflict prevention, and humanitarian assistance. In addition, the Higher Education Development Program works in close partnership with USAID and the nation’s six presidential higher education associations to support the involvement of higher education in development issues worldwide. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms