Undocumentedsupport - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Undocumentedsupport Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Multicultural Affairs Cultural Collaborative Immigrant Student Programs Multicultural Coalition Support Resources Undocumentedsupport Campus Ministry Inclusive Excellence & Belonging Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Undocumented Student Support Internal Resources Admission for DACA and Undocumented Students The University of Massachusetts Boston is the most diverse university in New England and offers a welcoming college community. We encourage Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and undocumented students to apply for admission to the university. Merit Scholarships Undocumented and DACA students are encouraged to apply for merit based scholarships at the University of Massachusetts Boston to help finance their education. In order to be matched and apply for scholarships students are encouraged to create a profile on Academic Works. Tam Tran and Cinthya Felix Immigrant Achievers Scholarship Undocumented and DACA students at the University of Massachusetts Boston are strongly encouraged to apply for the Tam Tran and Cinthya Felix Immigrant Achievers Scholarship. This scholarship was created as a collaboration between the Immigrant Task Force on campus; a collective of individual students, faculty, administrators, the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, and University Advancement. We realized that almost half of students come from immigrant families, however, many students that have DACA, TPS, or are undocumented are not eligible for federal financial aid. This scholarship was created to financially support students that have limited opportunities for scholarships and other aid. Please review scholarship criteria and apply through Academic Works If you are interested in donating or know someone that would like to please contact University Advancement . For questions, resources, or support please contact Immigrant Student Program . The Assistant Director, Malachi Robinson, or Program Coordinator, Allie Rojas will be able to assist you. External Resources Student Immigrant Movement The Student Immigrant Movement is a MA-based statewide immigrant youth-led organization. They organize youth, ages 13-30, and provide political education, leadership training, guidance, mentorship, and safe healing spaces. United We Dream United We Dream is the largest immigrant youth-led organization in the nation. The nonpartisan network is made up of over 100,000 immigrant youth and allies and 55 affiliate organizations in 26 states. They organize and advocate for the dignity and fair treatment of immigrant youth and families, regardless of immigration status through federal legislation. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General The Attorney General Maura Healey issued an advisory to public and private colleges and universities in Massachusetts on issues that may affect immigrant students. The advisory addresses questions and concerns, including ways to support immigrant students on campus and the ability of schools to protect information about students’ immigration status. AG Healey said. “Massachusetts schools should be safe places for learning. With this advisory, we hope to clarify the rights of students and public and private college and university officials so that all students can feel welcome on campus.” The Mayor's Office for Immigrant Advancement The Mayor's Office for Immigrant Advancement provides public education to inform immigrants about City services, information, and referral to community services, as well as information in conducting outreach to immigrant groups. Complete list of services in Boston for immigrants The Greater Boston Legal Services The Greater Boston Legal Services provides free civil (non-criminal) legal assistance to low-income people in Boston and thirty-one additional cities and towns. Rian Immigrant Center The Rian Immigrant Center's Immigrant Legal Services program offers comprehensive, professional, and confidential services for non-citizens, regardless of their legal status or ability to pay. They offer assistance navigating complex U.S. immigration laws. Other Resources​ US Immigration If Then Chart UMass FAQ on DACA Rescission Own the Dream United We Dream My Undocumented Life National Immigration Law Center (NILC) Guidelines for Prospective DACA Applicants What I Need to Know about the End of DACA from the Immigrant Legal Resource Center (ILRC) If DACA Ends, Here’s What the Program’s Recipients Need to Know About Their Rights Some immigration resources, including attorney resources, are available here. Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition (MIRA) Greater Boston Legal Services DACA Renewal Clinics My Undocumented Life: The Trump Administration Rescinded DACA. What You Need to Know. Lumina Foundation: America Needs DREAMers to Fuel the 21st Century Economy Depart Nation: DACA -- What Now? Legal advice for DACA recipients, personal advice for allies Resources/Information for Undocumented Immigrants & Families Scholarship list for Undocumented Students UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms