Talent Search Program - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Talent Search Program Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Talent Search Program Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Talent Search Program Eligibility Services Staff Upward Bound Upward Bound Math-Science Urban Scholars Directions for Student Potential Pathways & Multilingual Programs English Language Program Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Talent Search The Talent Search Program is a college and career readiness program that identifies and serves disadvantaged young people. Our goal is to encourage them to continue in, graduate from high school, and to enroll in programs of post-secondary education. High school and post-secondary dropouts are also encouraged to return to school and assisted in the process.  The majority of services are provided at the students’ middle or high schools within a classroom or workshop setting. Students may also make appointments to meet with Talent Search staff at our UMass Boston campus office after school or during school vacations. Program History at UMass Boston Talent Search (aka Project REACH on campus) was first funded at our institution in September 1985 by a U.S. Department of Education grant. For more than 25 years the UMass Boston Talent Search Program was one of the only Educational Talent Search program’s to serve solely low-income, urban youth with disabilities in the nation. The grant has been consistently refunded at our institution, and we now work with all students both in General and Special Education. Our history of working with students with disabilities has allowed our program to develop invaluable specialties that is applied across all types of learning styles. The institution now has two TRIO Talent Search programs, working with 7 middle and high schools and serving more than 1,300 Boston Public School youth. Goals Assist participants in persisting in and completing secondary education. Support participants in the completion of a rigorous high school program of study. Encourage persons who have not completed programs of study at the secondary level to re-enter them. Inform persons with disabilities of the existing community resources. Support program participants in the enrollment in and completion of programs of post-secondary education. Contact Talent Search Program McCormack Hall, 1st Floor, Room 414 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.7390 Email: Talent Search UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms