Voluntary Product Accessibility Template - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Accessibility Voluntary Product Accessibility Template Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Accessible Documents Accessible Multimedia Accessible Pdfs Voluntary Product Accessibility Template Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Voluntary Product Accessibility Template What is a VPAT? The Voluntary Product Accessibility Template, or VPAT, is a technical document prepared by product vendors that explains the extent to which a product is compliant with accessibility legislation . This template describes in detail what parts of the product meet accessibility standards. The VPAT is a voluntary program and as such, not all products have submitted VPAT documents. Having a VPAT template does not mean the vendor is compliant with accessibility legislation. Why is this important? As a diverse and inclusive post-secondary institution , it is critical that education is equitable and accessible for the UMass Boston community, including educational technologies that are used in on-campus, web-enhanced or online courses. UMass Boston’s Learning Design Services strongly encourages faculty to verify the accessibility level of any educational technology employed in their courses and proactively provide a list of VPATs for educational technology used in their courses. Having a link to VPATs listed in the course will reduce the time necessary to accommodate the user, if the need arises. Where do I find a VPAT? Many educational technologies, as part of their product websites, have an accessibility section. Unfortunately, others do not. Learning Design Services has created a commonly used software list which includes links to accessibility information as well as VPATs that faculty can provide in their courses. The completeness and accuracy of the listed VPAT templates has not been verified. Please contact Learning Design Services with further questions about the content of these documents. When working with a VPAT, verify that it is up to date and provides an accurate description of the product’s accessibility. When do I need a VPAT? It is recommended for each technology used, a vendor VPAT web link, if one exists, be provided in the course syllabus. Instructors do not need to take any action if using educational technologies that are provided by Learning Design Services. For your convenience, Learning Design Services has created a web page of vendor VPAT templates for the most commonly used software products at UMass Boston. A link to this page is also available in the “Help & Resources” content area in each Blackboard Learn course. If you are using an educational technology not provided by UMass Boston, a URL link to the vendor VPAT in the course syllabus is strongly recommended. Learning Design Services continues to improve the list of vendor VPAT templates. If you would like to add a vendor/product to the list, please contact Learning Design Services. WCAG/VPATs for Commonly Used Tools at UMass Boston Faculty are encouraged to verify and post links to accessibility documents for the tools they use in their course. Below is a list of accessibility documents available for each of the commonly used software products at UMass Boston. Adobe Accessibility Adobe Compliance Apple Blackboard Collaborate Ultra Blackboard Learning Management System DropThought Echo360 Google (most products) Google Sites iClicker Microsoft Accessibility Microsoft WCAG Microsoft VPATS Piazza Pronto Respondus Respondus Lockdown Browser Smart Sparrow Top Hat Turnitin VoiceThread Reef Education Zoom Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms