Resources For Employers - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students Student Employment Resources For Employers Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment Community Service Conduct Contact Disciplinary Procedures Eligibility Federal Work Study Hiring Off Campus Work Study Paperwork Resources For Employers Rest Periods Wage Guidelines University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Resources for Employers If you are on-campus or an off-campus contracted agency and looking to hire a student: Review the Hiring Manager Checklist. Please review the hiring checklist . Complete a Job Description. No student employment position can be filled without a job description. All student jobs are now listed on the web and are assigned job numbers. Please review and complete the job description form. Advertise the Position. Contact SES to have us advertise your job description as "FWS Required" or "FWS Optional." Employers solely wishing to utilize the Federal Work-Study (FWS) Program should list their jobs as "FWS Required." Employers who would be willing to hire students through the Institutional (CC) Student Employment Program can list their opportunities as "FWS Optional" (FWS provides a 75% subsidy from the federal grant.). Review the Conditions of Employment. Before interviewing any student, be sure to review the Conditions of Employment . You cannot hire a student through the student employment programs who does not meet the conditions. Interview and Select a Student Employee. No common application or interview criteria exist for hiring students beyond the standard university regulations prohibiting discrimination, etc. You should determine the best way to collect the information you need from applicants and how you will select the student you wish to hire. Refer the Student to SES to complete pre-employment paperwork. Students who have not previously worked on campus must be sent to  SES to for paperwork. If students have questions about what IDs to provide, " Hiring Steps for Student Employees " will assist him/her in the process. Students may not work until the I-9, W-4, and EPAF forms are complete. Complete the Student Personnel Action (EPAF) Form. Once employment eligibility has been verified, Student Employment Services (SES) will send a confirmation email to you and the student. Do not send the EPAF until you receive the confirmation email from SES. Rehires do not need to redo pre-employment paperwork unless otherwise notified. The EPAF must be completed by the employer and submitted to SES. (The EPAF may only be submitted to SES after the student's I-9 and W-4 are on file with the office.) SES will validate the data on the form to be entered by Human Resources. Review the EPAF for accuracy before submitting it. The most common delays are caused by items that are left blank by employers (e.g. no account number, no pay rate, no job title, no job description was filed, etc.). Time Sheets. Departments are recommended to use the official student time sheet available on the HR web site. To obtain a copy, download Timesheets . Students are required to indicate the hours worked per week on a time sheet. The hours worked should be checked, and the time sheet signed by the supervisor.  The supervisor is responsible for submitting the time sheet to the appropriate person (Payroll Office, the Department's Payroll Coordinator, or SES) to ensure the students hours are entered into the payroll system. The office responsible for entering the hours into the payroll system is also responsible for maintaining copies of the time sheets for (3) three years after the fiscal year closes. If you or the student have any questions about the hiring process or the status of the student's paperwork, call SES for an update. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms