Bettytaymor Fund - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Women in Politics & Public Policy Support Bettytaymor Fund Menu menu Menu About Womens Political Leadership Events Cwppp New England Women’s Policy Initiative Research Resources Support Bettytaymor Fund Pollylogan Fund The Betty Taymor Scholarship Fund The Betty Taymor Fund provides financial support in the form of scholarships and stipends to students enrolled in the Center's Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy or the Master of Public Administration-GLPP track program (in year one only). Since 1992, the Fund has provided over $200,000 in scholarships to more than 250 students who have demonstrated academic excellence, a commitment to public service, and financial need. The Betty Taymor Fund helps to enable admitted students to attend the program regardless of their ability to pay.  This funding often makes the difference in being able to attend and complete the program. The amount of each stipend/scholarship ranges from $500 to $2,500. Applications are no longer being accepted for this academic year. This scholarship is offered without preference or restriction based on gender or sex. Our History Find out more about Betty Taymor and the history of the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy. Read More Our Services Our educational activities, events, and research projects are typically conducted in collaboration with many types of organizations. We are available to provide program evaluations, commissioned research studies, policy briefs, and fact sheets. (PDF) Read More Read More Read More Read More Watch a Video about the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Like the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Follow us on Twitter UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms