Meet Our Faculty & Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Pathways & Multilingual Programs Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Pathways & Multilingual Programs Meet Our Faculty & Staff Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Talent Search Program Upward Bound Upward Bound Math-Science Urban Scholars Directions for Student Potential Pathways & Multilingual Programs Academic Success Advising Program Meet Our Faculty & Staff Mission & Vision English Language Program Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Meet Our Faculty & Staff Lorena Fuentes (She/Her/Hers) Director (617) 297-6256 | Lorena.Fuentes-Lopez@umb.edu Lorena joined UMass Boston in 2010. She served as a full-time instructor in the former ESL Pre-collegiate Program for one year and as a full-time faculty in the ESL Undergraduate Program at UMass Boston for close to eight years. Lorena switched careers in 2019, and served as the Associate Director for the undergraduate and pre-collegiate ESL programs for two years. She became a full-time administrator for the Pathways & Multilingual Programs as the Director in 2021. Lorena has an MA in Applied Linguistics and is a PhD candidate in the Higher Education and Leadership Program at UMass Boston. Her research interests include organizational theory in higher education, curriculum development, racial justice in education, and multilingual students. Lorena is also passionate about music, dancing, cats, and languages. Erika Corona (She/Her/Hers) Associate Director (617) 287-6517 | Erika.Corona@umb.edu Erika has worked in academic affairs with multilingual students for over a decade. Joining UMass Boston in 2014, Erika has served as the Associate Director of Global Programs and Assistant Director of ESL and International Programs. She earned her M.A. from Lesley University in Intercultural Relations in 2015. Her expertise includes international student services, immigration, and multilingual instruction. Erika has worked extensively with pathway students engaging first generation and immigrant origin students in their preparation for their first year of college. Erika is a proud mom of two and enjoys spending time with her family and dogs outside of work. Gabe Hedemann (He/Him/His) Assistant Director (617) 297-1993 | Gabe.Hedemann@umb.edu Gabe has been teaching multilingual students since 1998, with new arrivals in the Baltimore/DC area, as a high school and college writing instructor, and in Boston working with pre-collegiate and undergraduate students since 2008. Gabe has an MA in TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages), and he is interested in language skill assessment, lesson design, and Culturally Sustaining Pedagogy. He now works as Assistant Director for Pathways & Multilingual Programs, supporting students, tutors, and faculty in the ELP and DSP programs. Gabe lives in Dorchester with his partner and pets. Daniel Flaherty (He/Him/His) Program Assistant and Data Coordinator (617) 287-6516 | Daniel.Flaherty@umb.edu Daniel graduated from UMass Boston with two degrees: his Bachelor's in Latin American and Iberian Studies in 2019 and his Master's in Applied Linguistics in 2021. He has worked as an English and Spanish tutor, as well as a Community Ambassador for the Honors College at UMB. As a graduate student, Dan worked as a DSP tutor and has worked behind the scenes of the program since. Dan now serves as the Program Assistant and Data Coordinator for the department as the first point-of-contact to new ELP applicants, helping them through the process of getting to UMass Boston. His favorite hobbies are watching baseball and American football, playing video games, and language learning. Maryam Altaf (She/Her/Hers) Academic Success Advisor (617) 297-1153 | Maryam.Altaf@umb.edu Maryam is a UMass Boston Alumna, graduating with her BA and MA in International Relations. In her current role, Maryam supports immigrant- origin students, multilingual, and DSP students to make sure they feel supported and are meeting academic requirements successfully as they complete their college careers. Her research interests include the undocumented community, international relations, racial justice, and Pakistan. She is also passionate about reading and watching movies in her free time. Alanah Mendes Andrade (She/Her/Hers) Academic Success Advisor (617) 297-6151 | Alanah.MendesAndrade@umb.edu Alanah Mendes Andrade is a Brockton Massachuetts native and graduated from UMass Boston Summa Cum Laude with an Undergraduate degree in English. Alanah spent her undergraduate years working with first-year and transfer students as a multilingual tutor, peer mentor and peer advisor. Alanah has recently joined the Student Equity, Access, and Success team in the Pathways and Multilingual Programs as an Academic Success Advisor, and looks forward to working with you all. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms