Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Political Science Student Resources Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Research & Impact Faculty & Staff Student Resources Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Student Resources Internship Opportunity University Policies & Regulations Familiarize yourself with University Policies and Regulations and the Code of Student Conduct . Careers A degree in political science can lead to exciting careers in federal, state and local governments; law; business; international organizations; nonprofit associations and organizations; campaign management and polling; journalism; pre-collegiate education; electoral politics; research and university and college teaching. Political science majors gain analytical skills, administrative competence and communication abilities that are valued in a wide spectrum of potential career areas. What Resources Are Available at the Department? Political science majors should consult their faculty advisors about career options. Your advisor can help you evaluate your choices in a variety of fields, from graduate study, to government/civil service, to the business world. Please ask for our APSA Career Booklet. In addition, each Spring the department holds an alumni career information session, when UMass Boston graduates come to campus to give advice to current students on thinking through their career possibilities and on maximizing their chances for admission to law school or graduate school or for entering the job market immediately following graduation from the university. Why is a political science major valuable? Political science majors gain a good background in knowledge of politics and current affairs, as well as critical, logical, and analytical skills that help them evaluate constraints and opportunities in many situations. Political science is not a static discipline; political circumstances are often in flux around the world. Political science majors are well-prepared to write and communicate well, while understanding the pressures of change. What are potential careers for political science majors? For the reasons noted above, a degree in political science is valued in many fields. It can lead to exciting careers in government, law, policymaking, research, consulting, business, nonprofit administration, academia, and more. Post Graduate Possibilities We take a critical look at politics, government, and the systems and structures that shape the world of public affairs. Our graduates succeed in obtaining the careers they desire, in a myriad of disciplines and roles such as: Activist, Advocate/Organizer Administration, Corporate, Government, Nonprofit, etc. Archivist, Online Political Data Budget Examiner or Analyst Attorney Banking Analyst or Executive Campaign Operative Career Counselor CIA Analyst or Agent City Planner City Housing Administrator Congressional Office/Committee Staffer Coordinator of Federal or State Aid Communications Director Corporate Analyst Corporate Public Affairs Advisor Corporate Economist Corporate Manager Corporate Information Analyst Corporate Adviser for Government. Relations Corporate Executive Corporation Legislative Issues Manager Customs Officer Editor, Online Political Journal Entrepreneur Federal Government Analyst Financial Consultant Foreign Service Officer Foundation President Free-lance writer High School Government Teacher Immigration Officer Information Manager Intelligence Officer International Agency Officer International Research Specialist Issues Analyst, Corporate Social Policy Div. Journalist Juvenile Justice Specialist Labor Relations Specialist Legislative Analyst / Coordinator Lobbyist Management Analyst Mediator Plans and Review Officer, USIA Policy Analyst Political Commentator Pollster Public Affairs Research Analyst Public Opinion Analyst Publisher Research Analyst State Legislator Survey Analyst Systems Analyst Teacher University Administrator University Professor Urban Policy Planner UMass Boston Policy Internship Program with Councilor Coletta Zapata Position: Fall, Spring, or Summer Internship. Description: The Office of Councilor Gabriela Coletta Zapata, graduate of the Political Science Program at UMass Boston, is looking for enthusiastic, dependable, and driven policy interns. As an intern, undergraduate and graduate students will have the opportunity to get involved in the ins and outs of municipal government work, attend Council meetings, and assist with researching policy issues pertinent to the day to day work of the Councilor. Duties may also include attending community and city departmental meetings, attending city council hearings, and supporting the Councilor and Chief of Staff on the development policy solutions. In addition to gaining research, legislative, and administrative knowledge and experience, students will have the opportunity to build relationships with City officials and learn the function of many key City Departments. Academic Credit: Students seeking academic credit must make arrangements with the appropriate program advisor at their institution. Duration: This internship will be 8-10 weeks. Start dates, end dates, and work schedule can be finalized with the office. Qualifications and Experience: Students should be familiar with Microsoft Office products and proficient in Google Apps for Work, have exceptional written and oral communication skills, be able to conduct independent research, and have an expressed interest in developing policy writing skills. Interest in issues relevant to the Councilor’s policy portfolio and/or familiarity with District 1 (East Boston, Charlestown, North End, and the Downtown Wharf District is a plus. To Apply: Please be sure to the questions below and provide a reference. Submit your application to Ellie Sanchez, Chief of Staff at elizabeth.sanchez@boston.gov . How did you find out about this internship and what drew you to apply for Councilor Coletta Zapata’s office? What would you like to learn about city government from this internship? What do you feel is the biggest issue the City faces and how do you think we could do better? What experience or interest do you have conducting policy research or writing policy?  Please provide examples. Are you passionate about any societal issues? It could be at a national, state, or local level. Please include the name, role, organization, email address, and phone number of at least one (1) reference. Note: The City Council handles a wide range of public issues that are vetted through a committee structure, and each Councilor chairs their own committee(s). For more information on the City Council and its committees, please visit the City Council website . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms