Sequencing Policies - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Policies Sequencing Policies Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Academic Standing Reenrollment Attendance Repeat Change Name Second Degree Previous Degree Course Reuse Sequencing Policies Credit Load University Withdrawal FERPA Grade Submission Graduate Student Statute Limitations Incomplete NA Grade Pass Fail Withdrawal Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Sequencing Policies Approved through University Governance March 2016: Course Sequencing Policy Some specific departments at the University teach subject matter that builds over multiple courses taught in a particular order, or sequence, over multiple semesters.  Courses are considered to be in sequence when concepts introduced in one course serve as direct preparation for the next course and there is a progression from one course to another.  This applies to courses taken at the university and for transfer courses.  If you pass a higher-level course in a sequence, you may not subsequently enroll for credit in a lower-level course in that sequence. Please Be Aware That: A “prerequisite” is a course that must be taken and passed before another course, however, a prerequisite need not be part of sequence. A “sequence” is a set of courses that build upon each other. Enrolling for credit in a lower-level course after credits have been earned in a higher-level course in a sequence completed at the University of Massachusetts Boston will result in the loss of credit in the lower-level course. Enrolling for credit in a lower-level course after credits have been earned in a higher-level course not taken at the University of Massachusetts in a sequence will result in the loss of transfer credit even though it is at the higher level.  In this instance, your course work in the lower-level taken at UMass Boston will remain on your UMass Boston record. Departments (spring 2016 updated) that have established sequences include: Mathematics; Computer Science; Classics and Religious Studies; Modern Languages, Literature and Cultures; and Latin American and Iberian Studies. Frequently Asked Questions Regarding the Course Sequencing Policy Q: How do I know if courses are part of a sequence? Because this varies by discipline, there is no one answer.  Sequencing typically occurs with lower-level (100- and 200-level) courses.  Here are some general suggestions.   Look to see if one course is a prerequisite for the next course (for example, Pre-Calculus is a prerequisite for Calculus), or if the courses are labeled in a way that indicates a progression (for example, French I, French II; Elementary Spanish, Intermediate Spanish). Q: What would be an example of this rule? French 101 and French 102 are a defined sequence.  You will not receive credit for French 101 if you take it after taking French 102. Q: Are prerequisites the same a sequencing? They may be helpful in determining sequencing but are not sufficient. Q: Please provide an example of a prerequisite and explain how this differs from a sequence. An example of a prerequisites is as follows:  ECON 308: History of Economic Thought has prerequisites ECON 101: Introduction to Microeconomics and ECON 102: Introduction to Macroeconomics.  While having introductory level understanding of economics is required to enroll in ECON 308, a student may take ECON 101 after ECON 308 with no loss of credit in either course. Q: I've earned credit for Spanish 101 and 102. Can I repeat Spanish 101 for a better grade? No. Courses that are offered in sequence cannot be repeated out of sequence. Q: Does course sequencing apply to transfer courses? Yes, if the transfer course is part of a sequence on this campus.  For example, if you transferred in Intermediate Spanish and then took Elementary Spanish, you would lose credit for the Intermediate Spanish course.  You would still be financially obligated to pay for the Elementary Spanish course.  Also be aware that you will also lose language proficiency. Q: I qualified for Elementary Language Proficiency based on high school language courses taken. Can I still take a course in that language? Yes, you can take a course in that same language but be aware that if you take the intro course you will lose ELP. Once you complete 102, you will complete ELP. Q: Will WISER block me from registering for courses out of sequence? No, WISER is not programmed to block that type of registration. It is your responsibility to be aware of the course sequencing rules. Q: I took a course that is part of a sequence and realized that I really need to go back and take a course earlier in that sequence. Is that possible? You may audit the earlier course in the sequence, but you may not take it for a grade. ( Course Audit Form ) Q: I withdrew from the second course in a sequence. Can I take the first course in that sequence? (For example, I withdrew from French 102. Can I take French 101?) Yes, as long as the first course is not in a sequence with any other courses.  If you are repeating that course, please review the repeat policy . Q: I failed the second course in a sequence. Can I take or repeat the first course in that sequence? (For example, I failed French 102. Can I take French 101?) Yes, as long as the first course is not in a sequence with any other courses.  If you are repeating that course, please review the repeat policy. Q: Who can I speak with about course sequencing? You can check with your advisor, the department and/or the registrar’s office if you have questions about course sequencing. Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms