Arrival - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services Arrival Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services Arrival Glossary of Terms UMass VIP Employment Current Students Frequently Asked Questions Visa Interview Tips International Exchange Students Global Ambassadors Current Student Resources Staff Giving Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Arrival at Port of Entry How soon can I enter the U.S.? You can enter the U.S. 30 days prior to the start date on your Form I-20. What documents will I need to present? You must have in your possession the following documents. (Do not pack these in your suitcase!) Passport (valid at least six months into the future) containing your F-1 student visa stamp; Certificate of Eligibility - Form I-20; Evidence of financial resources (the financial materials you showed the embassy/consulate to get your visa). What's Next? A customs and border agent will review your papers and electronically process your Form I-94, your “Arrival/Departure” record. This record determines your status in the United States and it is important to check your record online to make sure you have been admitted in the correct category. It is a good idea to check this at the airport; if there is a mistake you can request that it be corrected immediately. Then? You should then report to an immigration clearance at the International Student and Scholar Office to be processed in the government database. Failure to report to a mandatory clearance will result in the termination of your immigration record and you will begin a period of status violation in the U.S. All attempts will be made to contact you before the government reporting date, which is 30 days after the start of the term. Connect Like our ISSO on Facebook UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms