Study Abroad Programs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Study Abroad Study Abroad Programs Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Getting Started Study Abroad Programs Faculty Taught International Programs Requirements Financing Study Abroad Health & Safety Before You Go When You Return Fellowships Provost's Office Advising for Study Away: Meet with Us In-person or virtual advising appointments for study away: Schedule a time to Meet with us! Open-Advising Wednesdays: Study away open advising for students! Meet with a study away advisor for any general or quick questions, learn about the process, or continue your application. Check-in at the front desk in Global Programs. Every Wednesday through Dec. 4, 2024 9:30am-12:30pm Office of Global Programs Campus Center, 2nd Floor Suite 2100 Study Away Program Options: International Exchange Programs For Reciprocal Exchange Programs, UMass Boston exchange students pay their tuition and curriculum fee to UMass Boston, not to the host university. Mandatory and other student fees are paid to the host institution. The host institution will assist the student in locating housing and the cost is the student’s responsibility. If you are currently receiving the Chancellor's Scholarship or are studying under the GI Bill and want to receive that funding for your study abroad term, you must go on a semester/ year-long exchange program only. We have mapped our current exchanges that offer courses in English to identify what major subjects are available. View the UMass Boston major subjects available on our exchanges here . Exchange Programs (active) Australian Catholic University (ACU) ** (direct enroll possible) Australia Brisbane, Melbourne, Sydney University of Sunshine Coast (USC) ** (direct enroll possible) Australia Queensland United International College China Zhuhai Aarhus University Denmark Aarhus Ecole de Management de Normandie France Caen, Le Havre, Paris Sciences Po University Rennes France Rennes Hessen-Massachusetts Exchange Germany Darmstadt, Frankfurt, Fulda, Giessen, Kassel, & Marburg, Germany Universität Mannheim Germany Mannheim University College Dublin Ireland Dublin University of Limerick (UL) Ireland Limerick John Cabot University (JCU) ** (direct enroll possible) Italy Rome Hokkaido University Japan Sapporo Sophia University ** (direct enroll possible) Japan Tokyo Soka University * Japan Hachioji, Tokyo Saitama University Japan Saitama Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México * Mexico Mexico City Utrecht University Netherlands Utrecht Nova School of Business and Economics Portugal Lisbon Kyung Hee University South Korea Seoul Korea University (KU) ** (direct enroll possible) South Korea Seoul Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU) South Korea Seoul Universidad Autónoma de Madrid * ** (direct enroll possible) Spain Madrid Universidad del País Vasco (UPV) Spain Basque Country (Vitoria-Gasteiz , Bilbao, San Sebastián) Universidad Nebrija * ** (direct enroll possible) Spain Madrid Glasgow Caledonian University (GCU) United Kingdom (Scotland) Glasgow * Language Requirement ** Indicates limited exchange placements available each term. Exchange places are awarded to eligible students in the order in which they apply. Contact studyabroad@umb.edu before applying. International Faculty-Led Programs UMass Boston courses are taught by UMass Boston faculty in locations around the world. Our small group, faculty-taught study abroad programs will expose you to an array of diverse peoples, cultures and settings. The programs are custom-designed and taught by experienced UMass Boston faculty. Programs range from 10-days to one-semester in length in a variety of subject areas. Faculty-Led Programs Currently Accepting Applications: Spring 2025 Course with Spring-Break Travel: CEHD and SGISD Sponsored Study Tour to Peru (travel during Spring-break) Summer 2025 : Sexual Communication in the Netherlands with Professor Cassandra Alexopoulos Taste of Japan: Food, Culture, and Society with Professor Miyuki Yamamoto Theatre & Literature in London with Professors Robert Lublin & Matthew Brown International Provider Programs Specific third-party study abroad companies/organizations (providers) that UMass Boston partners with to offer alternatives to the Reciprocal Exchange Programs. These programs are highly recommended and have maintained reliable services in partnership with UMass Boston's Office of Study Abroad & International Exchange for a number of years. Affiliated Provider Programs offer a reduced fee between $200 and $600 per student depending on a provider and the duration of the program. All costs for alternate programs are paid directly to the programs themselves; often expenses such as housing, partial board, and additional on-the-ground support are a part of the costs associated with provider programs. Many provider programs offer scholarships to participants. You can transfer the financial aid you are receiving now to these programs. Additional financial aid for the program is assessed based on your individual FAFSA. Please consult Financial Aid Services for questions regarding study abroad financial aid. Affiliated Partners (with reduced fee): Oxford Study Abroad Programme (OSAP): OSAP places strong students in colleges of Oxford University. Oxford is the oldest English-speaking university in the world, and is considered to be one of the two or three best universities and/or colleges in the world. The program is offered for UMass Boston students 4 times a year, including summers. The Oxford Study Abroad Program is multi-disciplinary & features tutorials (one-on-one instruction). Academic Programs International (API): API programs offers UMass Boston students opportunities to earn college credit toward their degree programs by completing coursework taught in English. API also offers language-acquisition coursework and/or content taught in host country languages at institutions overseas. Programs are offered for UMass Boston students 4 times a year, including summer and winter.  API is sends students abroad to more than fifty different cities within twenty-three countries in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, and the South Pacific. International Studies Abroad (ISA): ISA provides students opportunities to study abroad in a variety of locations at an affordable price. ISA aims to maximize participants' learning abroad, and provide support and guidance before, during and after their time abroad. ISA's flagship programs are in Spain and Latin America, but they also have programs in a total of 74 cities and 28 countries in Europe, South America, Asia, Oceania, Middle East, and Africa. American Institute of Foreign Study (AIFS): AIFS offers a wide range of study abroad programs in Asia, Australia, Europe, Africa and the Americas, plus multi-country traveling programs throughout western Europe. AIFS offers courses taught in English, and also language acquisition programs abroad. Programs are offered three times a year, including summer. CAPA (The Global Education Network): CAPA offers students opportunities to study abroad and intern in Buenos Aires, Dublin, Florence, London, Shanghai, and Sydney. Students participate in custom internships arranged through the Global Internships Program (3-6 credits) and take 2-4 additional courses alongside the internships in a variety of disciplines (art history, business, communications, political science, and others). CAPA Global Business Certificate (a partnership with the University of Pittsburgh’s College of Business) is designed to provide an intensive business curriculum and internship placements within a global context. Internships are optional in all locations; students can take courses instead, which all offer experiential learning components outside of the classroom. Programs are offered during regular semesters and summers. Alternative Providers: The providers listed below are recommended providers; we recommend programs based upon past participants' experiences and success, as well as a number of criteria, including cost, reliability, services available for students, and academics. If you find alternative study abroad programs that are not on this list, please meet with a study abroad coordinator, so that we can review your selection. Academic Studies Abroad (ASA) - offers semester, academic year and summer study abroad programs in Europe and Latin America Center for Cross Cultural Study (Spanish Studies Abroad) - programs in Spain, Argentina and Cuba. Study Spanish abroad. Learn Spanish language and study the culture of Spain, Argentina or Cuba. College Consortium for International Study (CCIS) - a nonprofit consortium of colleges offering study abroad programs for U.S. students. Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE) - programs in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, or Spain Center for International Studies (CIS) - programs at host institutions ranging from large, English-speaking universities to small language and culture focused study centers. Cultural Experiences Abroad Global Education (CEA) - programs to locations in several countries, including Argentina, Australia, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, South Africa and Spain IES Abroad : Programs in Africa, Europe, Asia, Latin America, Australia, and New Zealand The Education Abroad Network (TEAN): Programs in Australia, New Zealand, and Southeast Asia University Studies Abroad Consortium (USAC) - Nonprofit, university-based study abroad organization which provides quality, accredited summer, semester & yearlong programs in 25 countries International Direct Enrollment Study overseas as an international/visiting student and transfer credits with the approval of UMass Boston. Tuition and program fees are paid to the university abroad. Check the university website for information on costs. Affiliated and Popular Direct Enrollment Programs: Lorenzo de Medici, Florence, Italy American College of Greece, Athens London Metropolitan University, UK John Cabot University, Rome, Italy University of the Sunshine Coast, Australia Oxford Study Abroad Program, UK Phillips Universität Marburg IUSP Program, Germany American University of Paris, France Know of a university we are not partnered with that offers a study abroad program for non-exchange students? Please see the study abroad office if you have an outside program you are interested in before applying. National Student Exchange Programs (US & Canada) The National Student Exchange Program offers semester or year-long programs at nearly 200 member universities in the US, Guam, Puerto Rico, US Virgin Islands, & Canada. For questions, email NSE Coordinator Michael Mahan . Programs Open to Graduate Students Reciprocal Exchange Programs: The exchange programs below offer graduate-level coursework. These are semester or year-long based programs in which your tuition/fees would continue to be paid to UMass Boston. Any additional fees/housing costs will be paid by you to the program abroad. Before proceeding in applying to any program, please discuss the program, courses, and any related financial awards with your Graduate Program Director. You must have permission from your program before we can accept your application. Please check the following, before applying: If you are receiving any sort of financial aid/scholarships, check with your program and scholarship office on what can be applicable to a study abroad exchange program. Your tuition/fees continue to be paid to UMass Boston for the semester/year you are abroad. The courses offered on the program abroad are able to be transferred to your program. This will need to be confirmed by your graduate program director. You should provide syllabi for all courses you wish to take to your graduate program director. Programs with graduate-level coursework: Aarhus University: Aarhus, Denmark Aarhus University: Arctic Spring Semester in Greenland: Nuuk, Greenland Ecole de Management de Normandie: Caen, Paris, Le Havre, Dubai, Dublin, or Oxford Glasgow Caledonian University: Glasgow, Scotland, UK Hessen-Massachusetts Exchange: Hessen, Germany Nova School of Business and Economics: Lisbon, Portugal Universidad del País Vasco: Bilbao, San Sebastián, Spain University of Mannheim: Mannheim, Germany Utrecht University: Utrecht, Netherlands Non-Exchange Programs/Opportunities: DAAD Research Grants: Various, Germany Intern Program at United International College: Zhuhai, China Intern Research Program at Goethe- Universität Frankfurt Am Main: Frankfurt, Germany UMass Boston Faculty-Led Graduate Programs (check here to see if any are open) Explore Study Abroad Programs & Apply Hear from UMass Boston students on their experiences studying abroad on our blog site . Choosing your study away program: To search for the study abroad programs and course options you must go to the individual website of the program. You can search for programs here: https://viaumassboston.via-trm.com/ For the National Student Exchange Program , view options and apply here: https://nse.org/ Go to your program brochure page to access links to information about the university/program, dates, deadlines, costs, courses, & more. For a guide to the application process and to download forms to submit, please visit the Requirements & Procedures page. To get courses pre-approved for transfer (required for all courses) fill out a Request for Prior Approval of Study Abroad Transfer Credits Form. Study Abroad Program Lengths Semester or Year-long: Spend a full semester or academic year abroad. The minimum credits to be taken for a semester is 12 US credits to be considered full-time. Summer Programs**: Earn credits over summer break. Typical programs are between 3-6 weeks and offer between 3-6 credits. Winter (J-Term) Programs**: Earn credits over winter break. Typical programs are 2-3 weeks and offer 3-4 credits. Short-Term UMass Boston Faculty-taught programs: UMass Boston courses taught abroad by UMass Boston Faculty. Summer, winter, and semester options available here . National Student Exchange Programs: One Semester or one-year program options at a campus in the US or Canada. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms