Nursing RN-BSN - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Nursing RN to BSN Home Academics Majors & Programs Nursing RN-BSN Request Info Loading... An online program for registered nurses to complete a bachelor's degree in as little as one year. UMass Boston equips you to boost your salary and your job prospects with one of the best RN to BSN online program in Massachusetts, as ranked by RNtoMSN.org . You can earn your degree in as few as three semesters—a total of five nursing classes, at six credits each—with 42 credits transferred for your existing RN licensure. No clinical required—instead complete a service learning project in your community of your choice. The program is 100% online with optional synchronized classes ,where you can meet virtually with your faculty and classmates. UMass Boston's RN to BSN is fully accredited by the American Nurses Credentialing Center. We accept applications from all US states. RSVP to an online RN-BS Information Session Career Possibilities Work as a registered nurse in a variety of settings, including hospitals, clinics, long-term care facilities, and community health centers. Find opportunities as a clinical research coordinator, working with healthcare teams to coordinate and manage clinical trials and research studies. Or, educate the next generation of healthcare providers as a nurse educator. These are just a few of the possibilities. Become a(n): Registered Nurse Clinical Research Coordinator Nurse Educator Public Health Nurse Hospital Administrator Application Deadlines For fall semester admission, applications submitted by the "priority deadline" of March 1 are given priority and will be notified of a decision by the end of April. Applications will be considered on an ongoing basis through July 1 . For spring semester admission, the application deadline is December 1 . Applications will be considered on an ongoing basis through December. Apply Now Admission Criteria Completion of an accredited associate degree in nursing program or a hospital school diploma program. A GPA of 2.5 or higher Current citizen or permanent resident of the United States of America Admission & Degree Requirements Information Sessions Interested in learning more about the program? Join us for an information session. All sessions are held virtually through Zoom. During each information session you will learn about the program curriculum, prerequisite requirements, application processes, and have the opportunity to participate in a Q & A with program staff and admissions. Register for an RN-BS Information Session How to Apply Students New to UMass Boston If you have never been admitted or matriculated into a degree program at UMass Boston, you may apply to the RN-BS Program using this Apply link . Note: If you have taken classes as a continuing education or non-degree student at UMass Boston, you are still considered a "new" student and should apply through Undergraduate Admissions. The following application materials must be submitted: Completed Undergraduate Admissions Application Application fee: $60.00 Official, sealed transcripts from all colleges and schools attended AFTER the completion of high school/GED (even if the coursework completed does not pertain to nursing). Note: Applicants DO NOT need to supply their high school transcripts. Application materials should be mailed to: University of Massachusetts Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 William T Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA 02125 After you apply to the program, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions will mail you a letter containing an ID Number and pin code. You can use the ID Number and pin code online to review your Application Status.  If you have any questions about your application or the application process, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions . Former UMass Boston Students If you were previously admitted to a degree program at UMass Boston, your application process is different than what is listed above. Please select whichever of the following options applies to you and follow the instructions below. Formerly matriculated students who did not receive a degree If you were admitted to a degree program at UMass Boston but did not receive a degree , please complete the Undergraduate Readmission form available from the Office of the Registrar. Students who received a previous Bachelor's degree from UMass Boston If you have earned a previous Bachelor’s degree from UMass Boston, you may apply by submitting a Second Degree Application form available from the Office of the Registrar. The following application materials must be submitted: Completed Readmission Application Form or Second Degree Application Official, sealed transcripts from any colleges attended after graduating from UMass Boston Degree Requirements Completion of the RN-BS Degree requires successful completion of the following requirements: Five six-credit Nursing Major courses (30 credits taken at UMass Boston) Click here for RN-BS Advising Sheet All health science pre-requisites (via transfer, equivalent NLN exam , or courses taken at UMass Boston) All required general education, distribution, statistics, and elective courses Writing Proficiency Requirement 120 credits All coursework completed after the date of matriculation into the program must be taken at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Tuition & Financial Aid Cost & Aid Please refer to the the undergraduate financial aid pages for more information. For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu. Curriculum The nursing core classes must be taken in order at UMass Boston. Each nursing course is 6 credits. NU360- Professional Issues in Nursing NU 361- Health Assessment and Promotion NU 362- Nursing Research and Evidence Based Practice NU 461- Community Health Nursing NU 462- Capstone- Legal, Ethical, and Health Policy Graduation Criteria Successful completion of all nursing courses (five classes totaling 30 credits) Successful completion of the Writing Proficiency Requirement Successful completion of all University general education and elective requirements. ▪ 120 overall credits Additional Requirements If students do not transfer in credit for Pharmacology, Anatomy & Physiology, and/or Microbiology we offer National League of Nursing Examinations. All NLN exams are offered online through the National League for Nursing. Contact RN2BS@umb.edu (617) 287-7500 Nursing Learn more about UMass Boston's Nursing department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Nursing Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences. Explore Now Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) SARA Compliance, Disclosure & Dispute Resolution UMass Boston programs are designed to meet the requirements for licensure or certification in Massachusetts. Please contact your state licensing or certification board to determine whether the program meets the requirements for licensure or certification in other states. Learn More about SARA UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms