New Balance Becomes Official Apparel Provider for UMass Boston Athletics - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News New Balance Becomes Official Apparel Provider for UMass Boston Athletics Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Athletics New Balance Becomes Official Apparel Provider for UMass Boston Athletics and Recreation 09/17/2024 |
    Office of Communications The University of Massachusetts Boston has announced Boston-based New Balance as the official apparel provider for UMass Boston Athletics, with BSN SPORTS acting as the intermediary. Watch video Dr. Jacqui Schuman, Vice Chancellor and Director of Athletics and Recreation at UMass Boston, expressed the university's enthusiasm about this enhanced relationship with the Boston-based brand. "This is an exciting day for UMass Boston Athletics. This important relationship brings together two world-class organizations in Boston that espouse the same values of using sports and community to champion meaningful change in the world," she said. "This relationship demonstrates our commitment to elevating our student-athletes to new heights of competitive excellence, while also imparting the significance of advancing leadership and community through the transformative power of sports. As our student-athletes proudly sport the New Balance brand, symbolizing these very ideals, we are eager to collaborate closely with New Balance and our university to bring this shared vision to life." "We are excited to expand our support of UMass Boston to their Athletics program in recognition of our shared commitment to excellence and developing change champions," says Joe Preston, President & CEO at New Balance.  "We applaud the great work Chancellor Suárez-Orozco , Dr. Jacqui Schuman and their teams have done to increase opportunities for student-athletes through sport and community.  We look forward to cheering on the Beacons this season and beyond." "We are thrilled to continue our winning relationship with New Balance at UMass Boston. The New Balance Sports Leadership and Administration program, already a standout in higher education, offers unparalleled opportunities for students to build careers in sports management and drive social change," said Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco. "This strengthened relationship ensures that our athletic apparel needs are met, empowering our talented student-athletes to excel on the field and make a meaningful impact in our community, nation, and the world." Bill Stote, Sr. Vice President of BSN SPORTS Collegiate Select Program, said, "This agreement between UMass Boston, BSN SPORTS, and New Balance will add tremendous value and dedicated support to the experience of the coaches, student-athletes, and administrators involved with UMass Boston Athletics. Our team is excited to provide the Beacon athletic programs, coaches, and teams with the best possible service, unparalleled access to sports equipment and premier apparel, and branding resources to continue growing the UMass Boston prominent athletic brand and fanbase. We are proud of this relationship and welcome the opportunity to give time back to Beacon coaches daily so they can continue focusing on positively impacting student-athletes lives." In December 2023, UMass Boston announced a commitment of $10 million from New Balance to establish the New Balance Institute for Innovative Leadership in Sport. The gift provides operational funds to launch the institute and endow it in perpetuity at the UMass Boston campus.  The 2023 commitment and Institute built on the New Balance Sport Leadership and Administration program that was founded at UMass Boston with a $5 million gift in 2018. About New Balance New Balance, headquartered in Boston, MA, has the following purpose: Independent since 1906, we empower people through sport and craftsmanship to create positive change in communities around the world. New Balance employs 9,000 associates around the globe, and in 2023 reported worldwide sales of $6.5 billion. New Balance owns five athletic footwear factories in New England and one in Flimby, U.K. New Balance MADE U.S. footwear contains a domestic value of 70% or more and makes up a limited portion of New Balance's U.S. sales. To learn more about New Balance, please visit www.newbalance.com; for the latest press information visit http://newbalance.newsmarket.com . About BSN SPORTS Dallas-based BSN SPORTS is the leading marketer, manufacturer, and distributor of sporting goods apparel and equipment. A division of Varsity Brands, BSN SPORTS markets and distributes its products to over 150,000 institutional and team sports customers in colleges and universities, middle and high schools, and recreational programs throughout the United States via catalog, e-commerce, and direct sales. Focused on providing game-changing solutions through local partnerships, multi-brand selection, and one-stop shopping for equipment and uniforms, BSN SPORTS' more than 3,000 employees have been helping elevate participation in team sports since 1972. For more information about BSN SPORTS please visit www.bsnsports.com . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms