First Year Enrollment Checklist - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions Admitted Students Admitted Student Checklist First Year Enrollment Checklist Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Admitted Students Admitted Student Checklist First Year Enrollment Checklist Transfer Enrollment Checklist International Student Enrollment Checklist DSP Enrollment Checklist Advanced Credits Graduate Student Enrollment Checklist Submit Your Deposit Undergraduate Forms Graduate Forms Parents DACA & Undocumented First-Year Enrollment Checklist Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston. There are still a few things left to do before you can call yourself a Beacon! Review the list below and be sure to contact the Office of Admissions at 617.287.6100 or undergrad.admissions@umb.edu with any questions. New Student Deposit & Housing Deposit All new students must submit a $250 New Student Deposit and, if living on campus, a $300 housing reservation fee. Log into Beacon Gateway to submit your payments. The deadline to receive a refund on your New Student Deposit and Housing Reservation fee is May 1 . If you believe you may qualify for a New Student Deposit waiver, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions . Students referred to the Directions for Student Potential (DSP) program should review a separate checklist . Claim Your UMass Boston Account (WISER & Email) 24 hours after submitting your New Student Deposit, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will be provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: WISER - your UMass Boston student information system which you will access for registration, placement testing, etc. Webmail - your UMass Boston email account Register for New Student Orientation All new students are required to attend New Student Orientation. Orientation is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, register for classes, and familiarize yourself with university resources. After you've submitted your enrollment deposit, log into Beacon Gateway and click on the 'Events' tab to register for Fall Semester New Student Orientation. Writing & Math Placement Guided Writing Placement All new students will participate in a guided writing assessment, which will result in recommended placements for both composition and first-year seminar courses. Review the steps to complete your Guided Writing Placement . ALEKS Math Placement Students should refer to the Score Report Chart when considering whether to take the ALEKS math placement. When in doubt, take ALEKS before orientation, which will also give you access to a personalized learning module within ALEKS, and then give you the opportunity to retest. You may discuss this with your advisor during your advising/registration session following orientation. Log into WISER in order to complete your ALEKS Math Placement test. Read instructions for logging into WISER . Health Services: Immunization & Health Insurance To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. On-Campus Housing UMass Boston's on-campus residence halls provide community, access to campus happenings and beautiful views of Boston and the Boston Harbor. On-campus housing is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Follow these steps to ensure your place in our residence halls: Submit your $300 Housing Reservation Fee in Beacon Gateway Create your UMass Boston account 24 hours after having submitted your Housing Reservation Fee, log into your Housing Portal with your newly created UMass Boston credentials Complete your housing application and await an email from the Housing Office on next steps For more information about on-campus housing, visit our housing website . On-Campus Housing Contact Information housing@umb.edu 617.287.6011 Off -Campus Housing UMass Boston's Office of Off-Campus Housing has staff and resources to assist new and continuing students with finding an off-campus residence. Off-Campus Housing Contact Information offcampus@umb.edu 617.287.6373 Get Your Financing in Order Be sure to keep up on financial aid, merit scholarships, and employment opportunities. UMass Boston's One Stop staff is there to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar and Bursar questions. Explore Student Clubs and Organizations Getting involved on campus is one of the best ways to maximize satisfaction, overall experience, and academic performance. Explore student activities, clubs, and organizations before arriving on campus . International Students and F-1 Visas Upon admission to UMass Boston, the Office of Global Programs will reach out to encourage international students in need of an I-20 to upload financial and other documentation. Upon submitting a New Student Enrollment Deposit, International students will need to claim their UMass Boston account and then use those credentials (username and password) to access the Global Programs portal to begin uploading required documentation. Please contact the Office of Global Programs with any questions: global@umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms