Beacons Magazine - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Beacons Magazine A magazine for UMass Boston alumni & friends In this edition of Beacons, we share stories of alumni whose life experiences and UMass Boston education inspired creative, entrepreneurial ways to engage and give back. Our cover story of highlights the formal inauguration of our Chancellor, Marcelo Suárez-Orozco, as the ninth chancellor of the University of Massachusetts Boston. April 5th marked the advent of UMass Boston 2.0, bolstered by a new strategic plan, revitalized academic and administrative operations, and robust partnerships with Boston and the Commonwealth. Read All 2024 Stories A Foundation for the Future Postponed by the pandemic, Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco’s long awaited inauguration ceremony celebrated his four years of leadership and his ambitious vision for UMass Boston. Service by the Truckload Torry Katsiroubas Stamm G’08 carries on a four-generation legacy of entrepreneurship and public service. Pain to Purpose Nonprofit founder Stephanie Crawford CER’20 garnered city and state accolades in 2023 for the support she offers individuals and families facing pregnancy and infant loss. A Better Way to Beach Effie Orfanides ’06 is making waves in the tech world with a new app for beach enthusiasts. Read about Effie's Work Looking Back, Facing Forward The University Hall Gallery at UMass Boston hosted its inaugural alumni art exhibition which showcased over 40 pieces from 31 alumni whose class years span over five decades. Read About the Exhibit Departments Your Take For this issue of Beacons, we asked our alumni: What was your favorite view on campus? The Tea A New Collaboration: A new partnership between Boston Public Schools and UMass Boston creates the city’s first University-Assisted Community Hub School. Student Q&A: Kaushar Barejiya ’24 “UMass Boston’s unique position in the city as a public university helped me tap into resources and opportunities” Did You Know? The UMass Boston MakerSpace gives our students, faculty, and staff access to physical and digital tools for scientific and creative projects. Class Notes Sidnee Berch ’20 landed a position as digital marketing coordinator for the Cincinnati Bengals, a National Football League team based in Ohio In Memoriam It has saddened us to learn of the passing of the following members of the UMass Boston community since our last issue. Past Issues Fall 2023 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms