Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Student Resources Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Faculty & Staff Student Resources CLA Advising CLA First! Research & Centers Dean's Office Current Students Undergraduate Research Portfolio What is it?  The Benefits of an Undergraduate Research Portfolio: The exploration and invention of new ideas is at the heart of the university. The Undergraduate Research Portfolio encourages you to participate in research—and become part of this analytical and creative activity at UMass Boston. The Undergraduate Research Portfolio gives you the opportunity for high quality faculty/student intellectual exchange by helping you to learn about and participate in research in your field. The Undergraduate Research Portfolio is also a flexible way to participate in research; you use your major’s coursework and research opportunities to craft a sequence of research experiences that works for you. The Undergraduate Research Portfolio is noted on your transcript and can offer you advantages on the job market and in the graduate school application process.  The portfolio can be completed in one year or up to three years. To schedule an orientation please contact Rafael.Jaen@umb.edu How do I do it?  The Requirements: Must have 30 Credits in residency or transfer to participate in the Undergraduate Research Portfolio. Attend a Program Orientation, run out of the CLA Dean’s Office.  Register and receive the Undergraduate Research Portfolio Form to track participation. Complete a Research Methods Course or equivalent (as defined by your major), earning a grade of “B” or higher. Participate in a Research Experience (or mentored field experience) with a professor for credit through a Capstone, Independent Study, or Internship Course, earning a grade of “B” or higher.  Complete and submit an Annotated Bibliography for this research.  (Your major defines these research experiences; you can petition for undergraduate and graduate courses to count as research intensive.) Create a Research Portfolio with evidence of the following: Attendance at 2 or more research forums (faculty talks, colloquium, visiting speakers) on campus.  Evidence of participation is your notes and a selfie at the event. Participate in a national, regional, on campus, or departmental research conference by giving a talk or a poster.  Examples include UMass Amherst’s Undergraduate Research Conference or a departmental Research Day. Completion of the CITI Training program online (https://www.citiprogram.org/) for your major. A written research statement, annotated bibliography, and reflection statement, accompanying your submission of the completed Undergraduate Research Portfolio Form . Undergraduate Research Portfolio Flyer Accelerated Master's Program (AMP) Did you know UMass Boston offers 18 accelerated master’s program (AMP) degree choices exclusively for UMass Boston undergraduates ? Save money and time with the accelerated master’s program (AMP) Earn a master’s degree in as little as one additional year at UMass Boston Apply in your junior year (earlier for Honors College) and start taking graduate-level courses to count as undergrad electives. Make more money m aster's degree holders typically find higher-paying jobs, faster. AMP eligibility and how the program works. The McNair Program The McNair Program at UMass Boston has been funded for the next five years.  The new application includes STEM students and faculty from CLA.  The Mission of the Ronald E. McNair Program is designed to provide opportunities for undergraduates from disadvantaged backgrounds- especially from underrepresented academic groups- to excel at the undergraduate level and progress toward doctoral degrees to undertake careers in college and university teaching. Participants prepare for graduate school by attending seminars, advising sessions, and completion of a faculty-mentored research project. Benefits include travel opportunities, a research stipend, partial tuition assistance, and intensive during the graduate school application process. The McNair Program at UMass Boston has been funded continuously by the U.S. Dept of Education for over thirty years with thirty-four of its McNair Scholars going on to receive PhDs at universities. Please let us know if you know of any talented students who might fit the requirements of the program and we will contact them about opportunities in education and research. In addition, if you are interested in becoming a sponsor for McNair Scholar please let us know. We try to connect scholars with faculty mentors for training in research opportunities in their research specialties. We assist research investigations by providing support for necessary laboratory supplies needed for research investigations. Please, let us know if you have any questions about the program or selection of students as McNair Scholars. Dean's List Please click on this link for our Dean's List criteria Graduating with Honors The University bestows three separate honors designations for scholastic excellence reflected in the cumulative average: Summa cum laude - Students must maintain a GPA of 3.75 or above Magna cum laude - Students must maintain a GPA of 3.50 to 3.74 inclusive Cum laude - Students must maintain a GPA of 3.30 to 3.49 inclusive Career Services For more information on career services, career planning, Internships, co-ops or other career-building services,  please click on this link: Career Services & Internships Museum Partnerships Boston is home to a number of world-class museums. We encourage UMass Boston students to take full advantage of these institutions, and to use the privileged access that our students enjoy. Please see the Museum Partnerships page for a list of museums that offer benefits to UMass Boston students. Undercurrents: Student Writing Journal Click here for the Student Writing Journal "Undercurrents" UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms