- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Boston Teachers College Luncheon Celebrates Future Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Education & Human Development Boston Teachers College Luncheon Celebrates Future Educators 06/09/2023 |
    Vanessa Chatterley The Boston Teachers College held its annual scholarship luncheon last month to honor six UMass Boston students pursuing careers in education. Image By: Kahrim Wade “ We’ll never know the names of all the people who walked through the doors before, and yet, we keep working on opening those doors ” Hosted by the Office of Alumni Engagement, the luncheon’s purpose is two-fold: In addition to reuniting alumni of Boston Teachers College and its legacy schools, the event also celebrates and recognizes the importance of supporting the next generation of teachers. Director of Alumni Engagement Steve Whittemore said Boston Teachers College alumni share a rich and expansive history of inspiring and supporting future educators. “We host this event each year to celebrate the impact that these educators have made in their field and to inspire the next generation of teachers to continue this important legacy,” said Whittemore. “The BTC scholarship recipients are the future of the teaching profession, and it is fundamental that we recognize and support them through events like this.” The following students were named 2023 Boston Teachers College Scholarship recipients: Ingrid Arevalo ’23 Danielle Grant ’23 Alexandria Jones ’23 Carolyn McCarthy ’23 Mijailosna Tavarez ’23 Eh Thaw ’23 The BTC Scholarship Fund was founded in 1996 by alumnae Marie Fox ’52; Virginia Lee Langley ’48; Alice O.C. DeGuglielmo ’52; Jane Monahan Milano ’55; Mary Doucette Duseau ’57; Madeline McLean Smith ’51; and Virginia M. Duseau ’52. Since its inception over 25 years ago, the scholarship fund has skyrocketed, surpassing its $1 million milestone goal in 2021. To date, more than 70 students have been awarded the scholarship. BTC Scholarship recipient Ingrid Arevalo, who will earn her bachelor's in early childhood education at the end of this month, attributes the faculty and their overall engagement and commitment to student success for helping her to stay on track over the past four years. “I have had amazing professors who all truly show interest and passion for the field. This has been really motivating to me as a student. Having professors who care about the field and what we are learning is a quality I admire and has been beneficial to the students who are learning from them,” she said. At the conclusion of the event, CEHD Dean Tara L. Parker shared a story with the audience to remind them of the importance of opening doors, expanding access, and transforming education for future generations. “Opening doors is what we strive to do in the College of Education and Human Development. And together, we're all working to help so many people get the benefits of our society but who have been shut out by virtue of systemic barriers. And so, we’ll never know the names of the people who fought to open the doors for us. We’ll never know the names of all the people who walked through the doors before,” she said. “And yet, we keep working on opening those doors anyway.” To make a gift to the Boston Teachers Scholarship Fund, please visit our giving page . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms