End Of Life - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Gerontology Institute Publications End Of Life Menu menu Menu About Contact Helpful Resources Publications Community Planning And Evaluation Elder Housing And Assisted Living End Of Life Families in Later Life and Grandparenthood Journal Longterm Care Productive Aging and Older Workers Publication Archives Resources Retirement Transportation End of Life Publications: Psychological and physical health in widowhood: Does marital quality make a difference? (2021) Lee, H. J., Han, S. H., & Boerner, K. Insufficient advance care planning? Correlates of planning without personal conversations (2021) Boerner, K., Moorman, S. M., Carr, D., & Ornstein, K. Bereavement in the time of Coronavirus: Unprecedented challenges demand novel interventions (2020) Carr, D., Boerner, K., & Moorman, S. M. Rethinking the role of advance care planning in the context of infectious disease (2020) Moorman, S. M., Boerner, K., & Carr, D. Centenarians’ end-of-life thoughts and plans: Is their social network on the same page? (2018) Boerner, K., Kim, K., Kim, Y.,* Rott, C, & Jopp, D. S. Thinking about the end of life when it is near: A comparison of German and Portuguese centenarians (2019) Boerner, K., Jopp, D. S., Kim, K, Butt, A.,* Ribeiro, O., Araujo, L., Rott, C. Effects of parental death on relationship quality with grown children (2019) Kim, Y., Kim, K., Boerner, K., Birditt, K. S., Zarit, S. H., & Fingerman, K. L. How social network size and quality affect end-of-life surrogate preferences (2018) Moorman, S. M., & Boerner, K. Social and organizational practices that influence hospice utilization in nursing homes (2018) Rodriquez, J., & Boerner, K. Home health aides' experience with client death: the role of employer (2017) K. Boerner, H. Gleason, & A. Barooah Models of coping with bereavement: An updated overview/Modelos de afrontamiento en duelo: un resumen actualizado (2017) M. Stroebe, H. Schut, & K. Boerner Burnout after patient death: Challenges for direct care workers (2017) K. Boerne, H. Gleason, & D.S. Jopp Cautioning health care professionals: Bereaved persons are misguided through the stages of grief (2016) M. Stroebe, H. Schut, & K. Boerner Grief is not a disease but bereavement merits medical awareness (2016) M. Stroebe, W. Stroebe, H. Schut, & K. Boerner After patient death: Direct care staff in nursing homes and homecare (2015) K. Boerner, O.R. Burack, D. Jopp, & S.E. Mock The positive association of end-of-life treatment discussions and care satisfaction in the nursing home (2015) J.P. Reinhardt, K. Boerner, & D. Downes Preparedness for resident death in long-term care: the experience of front-line staff (2015) I. Riesenbeck, K. Boerner, A. Barooah, & O.R. Burack Effects of End-of-Life Care for Older Adults with Serious Illness on Health Care Utilization of Family Caregivers (2015) K.A. Ornstein, K. Boerner, A.L. Siu, & R. Schulz Gerontology Institute Wheatley Hall, 3rd Floor, Room 124A University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 USA 617-287-7300 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms