Continuity Planning - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Preparedness Continuity Planning Menu menu Menu Alert Campus Closure Policy Contact Continuity Planning Documents Plans Policies Full Scale Exercise Functional Access Needs Hazard Mitigation Plan Training Useful Links Resources What To Do In An Emergency Continuity Planning Access the Business Continuity Planning Policy and Business Continuity Planning Form . Universities face a variety of risks, such as violent weather, threats to health, criminal acts, IT outages, or damage to facilities. These emergencies can disrupt teaching, research and public service. While some university departments are tasked with emergency response, such as the UMass Boston Police Department, most departments initially respond to emergencies on campus by either evacuating or following the instructions of first responders.  When an emergency takes place and the university is closed or has limited access, departments should refer to their individual continuity of operations plans.  Continuity planning is defined as an effort to define potential risks, determine how those risks will affect the operations of our campus, and implement safeguards designed to diminish those risks. Continuity planning is done before the emergency happens. Planning helps to: Prioritize actions to take before, during and after a disruptive event occurs. Identify key resources and dependencies (such as equipment, supplies & facilities) needed. Foster efficient communication between department members in the event of an emergency. Several steps you can take as an individual are described in the following checklists for instructors and researchers. More far-reaching efforts should be thoroughly planned by departments and dean’s offices with guidance from the Provost’s Office. The Provost’s Office oversees the implementation of instructional, research and academic continuity planning. Academic departments should work with their Deans’ Offices to coordinate continuity plans for classes and laboratories.  We encourage you to check with your department about continuity planning. Access Preparedness Checklists for departments, instructors, and researchers. For assistance, please contact the Office of Emergency Management and Business Continuity at 617.287.5104. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms