Uaccess Class Collaborations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students U-Access Uaccess Class Collaborations Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Community Resources Financial Literacy Program Food Pantry Give Justice Bridge Referral Form U Access Ambassador Program Uaccess Class Collaborations U Access Student Leaders Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures U-ACCESS Class Collaborations Are you interested in getting involved with U-ACCESS while earning academic credit? U-ACCESS partners with several professors to provide opportunities for students to engage with the U-ACCESS office through the class collaborations listed below! Dr. Carroy Ferguson , Professor of Psychology Class we work with: Professional Internship Seminar How: U-ACCESS hires a select number of interns to serve required number of internship hours as Pantry Specialists. Dr. Melanie Cadet , Faculty of Counseling and School Psychology Program we work with: Counseling and School Psychology How: U-ACCESS hires a select number of first year CSP students to serve as our Case Managers in a pre-practicum experience. Dr. Kathryn Kogan , Senior Lecturer II in Psychology Class we work with: Honors Freshman Seminar How: Select students from this class shadow U-ACCESS employees to learn about the program and how it works, and then presents information to the class. Sade Johnson , Academic Advisor and English Professor Class we work with: Critical Thinking II, Section 8 How: Students participate in the U(HAVE)ACCESS campaign, where students take the skills and knowledge they learn about critical thinking in class and apply them to advocating for different services on campus, including U-ACCESS. The Honors College . Rajini Srikanth , Dean of the Honors College and Professor of English; Caitlin Ferrarini , Student Development and Career Mentoring Specialist Program we work with: The Wealth, Poverty, and Opportunity minor How: This new minor educates students about many of the issues U-ACCESS clients face. In the future, students pursuing the minor may have the opportunity for internship credit through U-ACCESS involvement. Dr. Christopher Craig and Joseph Ramsey Class we work with: Experiencing Boston How: Students attend a 2 hour training during class to become certified U-ACCESS Ambassadors. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms