UMass Boston Launches the Beacon Wellness Initiative - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home About Leadership & Administration Strategic Plan Strategic Priority 4: Enriching Our Human Core UMass Boston Launches the Beacon Wellness Initiative Menu menu Menu Leadership & Administration About Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco Chancellor's Cabinet Members Senior Leadership Team Chancellor's Staff Chancellor Event Request Chancellor Meeting Request Chancellor's Reports Campus Plans Faisal-Nichols Honorary Scholarship Strategic Plan Strategic Plan Progress: All Priorities Strategic Priority 1: Holistic Student Success Strategic Priority 2: Impactful Research & Scholarship Strategic Priority 3: For the City Strategic Priority 4: Enriching Our Human Core Strategic Priority 5: Reimagining Campus Space Beacon Budget Model Chancellor's Lecture Series Beacon Wellness Initiative Restorative Justice Commission Mission Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Launches the Beacon Wellness Initiative 10/03/2023 |
    Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco At UMass Boston, we care deeply about the health and well-being of all. Wellness is a foundation for human flourishing. It is about our mental health, our physical health, and more. Viewed holistically, wellness includes self and other care, a self-awareness and understanding of what it means to thrive and to be at our very best – academically and psychosocially, intellectually and spiritually and also financially and in our relationships with nature and all living systems. As a university community of students, faculty, and staff, it is vital for us to exercise control over - and improve - our health and well-being by creating a supportive environment, fostering a culture of wellness, and building wellness skills. I am pleased, then, to announce the launch of the Beacon Wellness Initiative. First and foremost, the Initiative promises to strengthen coordination of health promotion efforts across the university for the benefit of all – students, faculty, staff, the community, and especially those who face persistent barriers to adequate health services and wellness opportunities. The objective of the Initiative is to embed health promotion in everything we do – to integrate it within the university's culture and structures. This will entail engaging every unit and corner of campus to incorporate health promotion activities into our work and to foster a collaborative environment of mindfulness for every member of the UMass Boston community. More broadly, the Beacon Wellness Initiative comports with a growing movement in higher education focusing on health and well-being as a core aspiration of campus life. Creating an ecology of systems and opportunities for wellness is key priority now and moving forward. Indeed, UMass Boston is uniquely positioned – through its research, teaching, community engagement, extraordinary diversity, and commitment to health equity – to become a leader in modeling health promotion strategies and advancing knowledge creation in the field. As one next step, we intend to form a Beacon Wellness Commission composed of faculty, students, administrators, and experts to develop a comprehensive plan for UMass Boston’s health promotion efforts and to guide the initiative’s progress. The commission would be called on to facilitate collaboration across the university to improve the efficiency and quality of health promotion services and develop recommendations for improving our health promotion efforts. The Wellness Commission – to be formed in the coming weeks and stood up by the end of October – will be composed of three sub-committees, one each focused on students, faculty and staff, and the community, in addition to a coordinating committee. Our hope is to make maintaining health and well-being a foundation of our culture at UMass Boston, a pillar of our day-to-day life on campus. We are excited to support the Beacon community through what we believe is a holistic, full spectrum approach to wellness. We look forward to working with the UMass Boston community on the Beacon Wellness Initiative. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms