Encryption - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Security Encryption Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Antivirus Encryption External Sender Guidelines Junkmail Laptop Theft MFA Passwords Phishing PII Scan SecureIT Server Social Media SSL Standards Research & Innovation About Information Technology Data Encryption Under Massachusetts law, one should take special precautions when handling personally identifiable information on a computer, external hard drive, shared network drive, and/or flash drive. Encrypting the computer hard drive and/or external device is a secure way to protect the data in case of theft or loss of the item. Windows-based PCs All IT-managed Windows-based laptops will be protected using BitLocker Technology. BitLocker is a disk encryption technology from Microsoft that protects the disk (and your data) from being read if it is stolen. BitLocker is available in Ultimate and Enterprise versions of Vista and Windows 7 and the Professional and Enterprise versions of Windows 8. How BitLocker works When powering on a laptop protected by BitLocker, you will be prompted to enter your PIN. The PIN is set just once for the entire laptop, so any valid users of the laptop must have access to the PIN.  Once the PIN has been entered, the machine will boot normally to the log in screen.  Once you have entered your credentials, this completes the two-part encryption and the data on the laptop is no longer protected by BitLocker (until log-off or shutdown).  When transporting, the laptop should either be hibernated or powered off as this ensures the PIN must be entered again to regain access. Creating your PIN When an IT-managed laptop is issued, you must set your PIN in person with the IT representative. This PIN will be required whenever the laptop is powered on after shutdown, or when awakening after hibernation. The PIN must be at least 6 alphanumeric characters long. Your PIN should never be stored with the laptop computer. Will BitLocker affect the performance of my laptop? The performance implication of encrypting your laptop system disk with BitLocker technology is minimal. Microsoft suggests that the overhead is around 3-5% on a modern laptop. What if I forget my PIN or need to change it? If you forget your PIN, the data on the laptop can be recovered by the IT Desktop staff that have authorized access to a recovery key that can be used to gain access to the PC and/or decrypt the disk. Contact the IT Service Desk in the event you have forgotten your PIN or need to change it. You will need to bring your laptop to an appointment with a member of IT Desktop Support to have your PIN changed. Macintosh computers Macintosh computers can be protected in a similar manner with Apple’s FileVault.  Newer machines will have the whole-disk encryption capability with FileVault 2, while machines with 10.6 (Snow Leopard) and older can use Home folder encryption with FileVault. To learn more about FileVault, how to turn it on or off, and how to use your iCloud account to recover your FileVault password, see Use FileVault to encrypt the startup disk on your Mac . Questions? If you have any further questions, or would like to schedule a service appointment to have your computer encrypted, please contact the IT Service Desk at 617-287-5220 or email to ITservicedesk@umb.edu. Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms