Nursing MS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Nursing MS Home Academics Majors & Programs Nursing MS Request Info Loading... Advance your nursing career. The Nursing Master of Science (MS) program at UMass Boston prepares you to become a highly skilled and compassionate Nurse Practitioner. The program is distinct for its academic rigor, rich clinical experiences coupled with instruction, and promotion of best practices. Through a blend of theoretical and practical learning, you will gain the advanced knowledge and skills necessary to improve patient outcomes and impact overall community well-being. In the MS with UMass Boston, you will: Demonstrate competence in the management of health and illness for individuals, families, and aggregate populations using critical thinking and evidence-based clinical decision making Facilitate positive health care outcomes for diverse populations Plan comprehensive continuous care through interdisciplinary collaboration across health care settings with an emphasis on diverse and urban populations Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Eligibility To be eligible for a UMass Boston graduate degree program, applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited U.S. institution of recognized standing or an international equivalent with a cumulative GPA of 2.75/4.0 (or international equivalent) in all undergraduate work. Application Requirements In addition to the criteria below, applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements . Official transcripts from all colleges attended. A bachelor’s degree GPA of 3.0 or better is recommended for admission to the program. Personal statement: As a prompt, focus on the following: why you want to pursue graduate studies, why are you interested in pursuing the track (AGNP/FNP) you are applying for and how will the degree help with your professional and personal goals Two professional references Current resume/CV Bachelor’s degree in Nursing from an accredited program Copy of your RN license Applicants must have at least one year of clinical experience before applying to the Nursing MS program. Official transcripts should be mailed in hard-copy or sent electronically directly from a digital delivery service such as eScrip, Clearinghouse, or Parchment. We cannot accept scanned or emailed transcripts. Please review the submission instructions for hard-copy application materials and test scores. Disclaimers Admission is granted only for the semester requested and cannot be guaranteed for future semesters. Admission to graduate study does not automatically indicate approval of candidacy for a degree. All materials submitted to the university become the property of the university and cannot be returned to the applicant or forwarded to any third party. Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: April 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Core Courses (27 Credits) NURSNG 601 - Introduction to Advanced Practice Nursing: Knowledge for Practice in the Global Community 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 614 - Advanced Pathophysiology 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 615 - Advanced Health Assessment Practicum 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 616 - Evidence Based Practice I: Appraising the Strength and Significance of Evidence 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 618 - Introduction to Health Policy, Finance and Ethics 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 634 - Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 640 - Advanced Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Across the Lifespan 6 Credit(s) NURSNG 715 - Health Informatics 3 Credit(s) Track Courses (21 Credits) Complete five to seven courses from one of the tracks below. Adult/Gerontology Nurse Practitioner Track NURSNG 637 - Mental and Psychosocial Health of the Urban Family 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 639 - Primary Care of Adults 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 670 - Primary Care of the Adult Practicum 6 Credit(s) NURSNG 671 - Primary Care of the Older Adult 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 672 - Primary Care of the Older Adult Practicum 6 Credit(s) Family Nurse Practitioner Track NURSNG 637 - Mental and Psychosocial Health of the Urban Family 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 639 - Primary Care of Adults 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 670 - Primary Care of the Adult Practicum 6 Credit(s) NURSNG 681 - Primary Care of the Childbearing Family 3 Credit(s) NURSNG 682 - Primary Care of the Childbearing Family Practicum 6 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Complete 48 credits from 13 to 15 courses including eight core courses and five to seven track courses. Tracks: Students must choose a track in adult/gerontological acute care clinical nurse specialist, adult/gerontological nurse practitioner, or family nurse practitioner. Capstone: Students must complete a comprehensive paper, an evidenced based project, or a poster or paper presentation. The capstone must be mutually agreed upon with the advisor. Minimum grade: No courses with a grade below B may be applied toward the program. Grading basis: No courses taken satisfactory/unsatisfactory or pass/fail may be applied toward the program. Statute of limitations: Five years. Contact Nursing Master of Science (MS): mastersnursing [at] umb.edu (617) 287-7500 Graduate Program Director Elizabeth Russet elizabeth.russet [at] umb.edu Nursing Learn more about UMass Boston's Nursing department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Nursing Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences. Explore Now Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms