Information Desk - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Campus Center Home Campus Center Services Information Desk Menu menu Menu Contact Services Atms Campus Store Dining Information Desk Key Requests Lounge Posting Advertising Wireless Access Students Information Desk If you've got questions, we've got answers! Stop by to ask us a question in-person (Campus Center, Upper Level) or give us a call at 617.287.4801. The Information Desk can provide you with valuable resources including: Building and Campus Map Campus Center Office Directory Shuttle Bus Information Dining Options Chromebook Rentals Lost and Found Outdoor Game Check-out General Information How do I pay my bill, complete my financial aid file or register for classes? The One Stop, located on the Upper Level of the Campus Center, can assist you with these questions and more! More about payments, financial aid, and course registration » More about payments, financial aid, and course registration How do I locate my class? Class locations are listed in the following manner: building, floor and room number. For example, M-02-005 is in the (M) McCormack Building, on the 2nd floor, in room 005. Building codes are as follows: (C) Clark Athletics Center (H) Healey Library (I) Integrated Sciences Complex (M) McCormack Hall (Q) Quinn Building (R) Residence Hall (U) Campus Center (W) Wheatley Hall (Y) University Hall Once you've identified where your class will take place, use the Campus Map to find your way to the correct building. What's a BeaconCard and where can I get one? The BeaconCard is the official ID card of UMass Boston. It is required for all students and staff to obtain one and keep it on their person at all times when on campus. The BeaconCard office is located on the second floor of the Quinn Building. Read more about Beacon Card Services » Beacon Card Services Do you have any outdoor games available? Grab your friends (or make some new ones) for a game on the Campus Center lawn! Soccer, football wiffle ball, and kick balls are available as well as frisbee, ladder toss, Kan Jam and more! Activities are available for free with a valid BeaconCard at the Information Desk. UMass Boston Police/Lost & Found How do I reach the UMass Boston Police Department? For emergencies call 617.287.1212 or 911 . For non-emergencies please call 617.287.7799. UMass Boston Police Department Is there a Lost & Found? Did you misplace your BeaconCard? Are you searching for your keys? Stop by the Information Desk and ask about our lost and found items. Unclaimed items are turned over daily (Monday-Friday) to the UMass Boston Police Department. Please note, perishable items are not accepted. UMass Boston Lost & Found Parking & Shuttle Bus Where should I park and where are the rates listed? If you plan to park at UMass Boston, be sure to allow yourself time to find a space and walk to your destination on campus. Remember that traffic may be very heavy, and space may be limited, especially at the beginning of the semester. All faculty, staff, students and visitors who can use public transportation are encouraged to do so. Parking rates are available on the Transportation website included below. Campus Parking and Transportation Information What are the UMass Boston Shuttle Bus routes? UMass Boston offers free shuttle service to various parking lots and the JFK MBTA station. Read more about the UMass Boston Shuttle Bus routes » View the live Shuttle Tracker online IT/WISER Can I borrow a Chromebook? Current UMass Boston Students can use a Chromebook, free of charge, by simply checking one out at the Information Desk. Who do I contact if my laptop is broken or I can’t login to WISER/Email? UMass Boston Information Technology Services is here to help. The IT Service Desk is located on the 3rd Floor of the Healey Library. Read more about Who do I contact if my laptop is broken or I can’t login to WISER/Email? » How do I connect to the Wifi? Students, faculty, staff and guests may access our wifi network. Read more about connecting to the wifi » Where is printing offered on campus? Print Kiosks are located in the Campus Center and in various other locations across campus. Read more about printing offered on campus  » Restrooms & Pumping Rooms Are there gender inclusive restrooms on campus? UMass Boston offers gender inclusive restrooms across campus. Many single stall options are available in the Campus Center. Read more about gender inclusive restrooms on campus?  » Are there lactations rooms available? On our campus we have two private rooms set aside for the lactation needs of employees, students, and campus guests. Both rooms are accessible via a keypad and feature a refrigerator for daily storage of pumped milk, an electrical outlet, seating, and privacy. The keypad code for both rooms will be provided upon request by contacting CivilRights.TitleIX@umb.edu , calling Human Resources ( 617-287-5150 ), or the Campus Center Information Desk staff ( 617-287-4801 ) Accessible from the Quinn Administration Building is an ADA accessible private room located on the Upper Level of Service and Supply. Look for the sign Mother’s Room approximately 50 feet after the double doors leading from Quinn to Service and Supply. This room is accessible via a short ramp. In the McCormack Building, room 01-0611, is a second room located immediately on your right as you enter the 600 wing. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms