About - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute About Menu menu Menu About Archived Presentations Give History Olli Staff Teach Contact Courses Events Join Sigs About Us OLLI at UMass Boston is an enriching and exciting program of courses and activities for adults 50+ who want to learn in an environment free of tests and required homework: It's learning for the fun of it! No college or other education background required!! OLLI – Osher Lifelong Learning Institute – is a network of independent  programs funded by the Bernard Osher Foundation and housed within universities across the country such as UMass Boston.  The Bernard Osher Foundation awarded us our first million-dollar endowment in 2008 and a second in 2012. We receive additional funding through membership dues, course fees, and private donations. We are part of the Gerontology Institute at UMass Boston which is part of the Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences . OLLI at UMass Boston is administered by university staff and supported by a member Board of Directors as well as other members who volunteer to facilitate courses, serve on various committees and run shared interest groups and activities. We offer a world of discovery for older adults who share interest in a variety of subjects, from composers to current events, religion to roman art, maps to myths – and more!  A myriad of programs are run throughout the four seasons of the year, Fall, Winter, Spring and Summer. OLLI programs meet on the campus of UMass Boston, at two offsite locales - Braintree and Hingham public libraries, and online via Zoom. Learn more about our programs! Helpful Links Join OLLI Explore our online course and program catalog UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms