Business - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give College of Management Explore the College menu Explore the College Message from the Dean Student Resources Academic Departments Faculty & Staff Research & Impact BEST Boston Become a Business Leader The College of Management is Boston's only public AACSB-accredited business school, dedicated to educating the region’s next generation of business and community leaders. Recognized for its first-rate faculty and diverse, high-achieving student body, the College offers exceptional learning experiences in collaboration with local businesses and industry leaders. Why Choose the College of Management? With our industry-relevant programs, renowned faculty, and robust network of alumni, you’ll receive an exceptional learning experience that will result in a quick return on your investment. Our small class sizes designed to meet the needs of full-time and part-time students, online or in-person, will allow you to get the personalized attention you deserve. Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Explore the College menu Explore the College Message from the Dean Student Resources Academic Departments Faculty & Staff Research & Impact BEST Boston Industry-Relevant Education for Career Success We offer programs that are designed to meet the evolving demands of the business world. Combine academic coursework with hands-on experiential learning, to ensure that you develop practical skills and an understanding of business principles. Whether you aspire to be an entrepreneur, a manager, or a strategic leader, our programs will prepare you to navigate the complexities of today's global business landscape. Explore Business Majors & Programs College of Management News Explore All News BEST Boston Program Expands, Energizes Local Economy 08/23/2024 | Stephanie Burns UMass Boston Introduces Fully Online Modality for Graduate Business Programs 03/26/2024 | Stephanie Burns BEST Boston Program Expands, Energizes Local Economy 08/23/2024 | Stephanie Burns Watch Video Boston is the Intellectual Capital of the World UMass Boston's College of Management is situated in the heart of Boston, a thriving hub of business and innovation. Its location provides students with proximity to numerous industries, including finance, technology, and biotech. This urban setting offers unique opportunities for internships, networking, and potential job placements, allowing students to gain practical experience and build valuable connections within their desired fields. Message from the Dean Faculty Excellence and Real-World Insights Learn from distinguished faculty members who are renowned experts in their fields. Our professors bring a wealth of industry experience and academic expertise to the classroom, providing you with real-world insights and practical knowledge. Research & Publications Expert Faculty & Staff Academic Departments Alumni Testimonials Join a powerful network of successful alumni who have made their mark in the business world. The curriculum at UMass Boston is very hands-on. I was working towards my CFA, and UMass Boston's affiliation with the CFA Institute aligned with my objectives. The faculty is friendly and always encouraging. Prachi Jain, MSF '22 UMass Boston produces stars, and I am one of them. The College of Management instills knowledge, values, and realistic possibilities for achieving goals outside the four walls of the classroom. The program's academic curriculum and diverse culture have raised a Festac boy from Nigeria to a high flyer. Jeffrey Ogeawuchi, MBA '22 I chose UMass Boston for the ability to complete my MBA virtually, the specialization options, and the diversity of students. I specialized in Information Systems to further my career in HR. This specialization granted me a deeper understanding of the ways technology plays a critical role in the talent market and improves business efficiency. Leah Gedies, MBA '22 Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Next Steps Admissions Financial Aid & Scholarships Majors & Programs UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms