Undergraduate Student Financial Aid - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Undergraduate Financial Aid Home Financial Aid Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Menu menu Menu Apply for Financial Aid Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Grants for Undergraduates Loans for Undergraduates Certificates for Undergraduates Student Employment International Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Scholarships Graduate Student Financial Aid Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships Your financial aid award may consist of a combination of grants, work-study, and loans from a variety of funding sources. Financial aid is derived from three primary sources: The U.S. Federal Government The Commonwealth of Massachusetts UMass Boston Get a preliminary estimate of federal, state, and institutional aid eligibility with the Net Price Calculator to help you gauge what aid you may be awarded and to know the cost you will need to cover. To determine your eligibility, simply complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . This one application is all you will need to be considered for most of the aid available. Simple steps can be found on Navigating the Aid Process . The financial information you report on your FAFSA determines your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) and is calculated by a Federal formula. The EFC is subtracted from the Cost of Attendance. The difference between the two amounts is “financial need” and represents a student’s maximum eligibility for need-based aid. The EFC is an estimate of the amount of money you’ll need to supplement the financial aid you qualify to receive. The number of credits you take, your residency status, and grade level are used to determine your aid eligibility and affect your offer. Notify Financial Aid Services if this information is not correct on your award letter. Transfer Students The Federal Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized loan amounts will be based on the amount of transfer credits that have been evaluated at the time of your financial aid award.  Loan amounts may change as additional credits are evaluated.  Please pay close attention to this information on your financial aid award notification letter. International Students International students do not qualify for federal or state financial aid grant programs. You can and should explore financial support options like private, individual loans, work opportunities, and scholarship potentials. Loan programs are available through private lenders with a creditworthy U.S. Citizen or permanent resident as a cosigner. Find a lender at www.elmselect.com . Some work opportunities can be explored through UMass Boston’s Institutional Employment Program . Be sure to read the Terms and Conditions for receiving financial aid. Make sure you take steps to maintain your eligibility for aid during your time at UMass Boston. Financial aid can be confusing. Don’t worry. Ask us for help. We can explain your options. Financial Aid Services I Campus Center, 4th Floor I Phone: 617.287.6300 I Fax: 617.287.6323 I finaid@umb.edu Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms