Accounting & Finance - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Accounting & Finance Home Business Academic Departments Accounting & Finance Menu menu Menu Message from the Dean Student Resources Academic Departments Accounting & Finance Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Management Management Science & Information Systems Marketing Faculty & Staff Research & Impact BEST Boston Welcome to the Department of Accounting & Finance UMass Boston's Department of Accounting & Finance has a cutting-edge curriculum that is designed to keep pace with the fast changes in the Accounting and Finance industry. Classes are taught by dedicated faculty that focuses on student success. Careful attention is paid to providing rigorous academic knowledge and preparing students to be critical thinkers and thought leaders in their careers. Request Info Apply Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Management BS Accounting C oncentration Fiance C oncentration Management Minor Graduate Programs Accounting MS Business Administration - MBA Accounting Specialization Finance Specialization Business Administration PhD Finance Track Finance MS Investment Management & Quantitative Finance Certificate News Xiaolu Xu has won an award for Outstanding Reviewer in the 2023 Emerald Literati Awards, selected by the editorial team of Asian Review of Accounting ! According to a paper in the Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy , Chi Wan is ranked one of the top 100 accounting scholars based on the number of downloads . About Our Department The Accounting concentration provides students with a broad understanding of both accounting theory and techniques in preparation for a full range of career opportunities in the private, public, and nonprofit sectors. The curriculum reflects the knowledge and skills necessary for professional success in the dynamic and critical areas of public and private accounting. The Finance concentration offers courses in corporate finance, investment and portfolio management, financial institutions and markets, and financial policy. The curriculum has been carefully designed to reflect the essential knowledge and skills necessary for success in the lucrative and challenging field of finance. Our specialized master’s programs are STEM designated. In a fast-changing world of AI and Big Data, our rigorous curriculum trains and develops our students into proficient financial and market data analytics. The Masters in Finance program is affiliated with the CFA Institute, and we offer CFA scholarships to our students. The Masters in Accounting program has a Level I designation by the Massachusetts CPA Society. We offer different delivery modalities including in-person and online options. We also provide our students with access to a student-managed fund, Bloomberg certification, and industry speaker events, all of which are designed to enhance their learning experience. The finance track in our PhD program provides a unique curriculum. It is taught by both accounting and finance faculty and demands competency tests in both subject areas. Additionally, the curriculum has been updated to include state-of-the-art classes in data science (natural language processing, machine learning, and textual analysis). This new emphasis on data science provides students with the tools needed to differentiate their research in a very competitive area. Resources Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Department of Accounting Arindam Bandopadhyaya Department Chair College of Management McCormack Hall, 5th Floor, Room 224 arindam.bandopadhyaya@umb.edu 617.287.7854 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms