Center for Italian Cultural Studies - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Catherine Frisone Scott Center for Italian Cultural Studies Home Center for Italian Cultural Studies Menu menu Menu Essay Events Faculty Travel Catherine Frisone Scott Center for Italian Cultural Studies in memory of John B. Frisone Sign-up for our mailing list! The Center for Italian Cultural Studies was generously funded by Catherine Frisone Scott, in memory of John B. Frisone. It received official recognition by the University in August 2019. The Center aims to be student-focused, encouraging students' passion for Italian language, literature, history and culture to enrich and augment their experiences in these subjects. It will also serve as a site of engagement for faculty, students, and the local and global community to reflect on topics of Italian cultural studies. Finally, it will be a resource for the many instructors throughout all units in the university. Its mission includes but is not limited to: Facilitating research and creating an interdisciplinary resource for faculty scholars and students on campus and beyond to promote Italian Studies and generate high quality scholarship; Showcasing a strength of the University of Massachusetts Boston in producing scholarship and teaching with an emphasis on multilingual and global issues through the study of Italian culture; Attracting additional funding from public and private sources for research and scholarly programs in a humanistic field that typically does not attract funding. Through these activities, the Center will contribute to the realization of UMass Boston’s stated mission to “serve as a catalyst for intellectual interactions with scholarly communities, students, alumni, and the public” and to “address critical social issues and contribute to the public good, both local and global.” Explore our past events! Sign up for our mailing list Catherine Frisone Scott Center for Italian Cultural Studies 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 email: ItalianCenter@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms