Courses - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Courses Menu menu Menu About Contact Courses Events Join Sigs Courses & Programs Curiosity never retires! You may workout and eat right to keep your body healthy, but what about your mind? Well, here are some opportunities to keep your brain as fit and active as your body. Take a moment and learn more about the different programs we offer our members. Lifelong learning occurs through a variety of means and methods, and OLLI at UMass Boston has several to offer you! Ready to join? Check out our membership options , or complete the Membership Form and mail in with your payment. Go to OLLI's online registration portal. Courses OLLI courses are typically 5-6 weeks long and meet once a week for 90 minutes. They are taught by a variety of professionals, experts, and enthusiasts! Courses explore a wide-range of topics and are offered both in-person and online via Zoom. Click on the image to the right to peruse the 2024 Fall Course Catalog (PDF file). OLLI Talks OLLI Talks are one-time presentations or workshops held usually around the lunch hour. Like our courses, OLLI Talks cover a wide-range of topics and areas. Walking Tours Walking tours consist of a well-researched tour of a neighborhood or location in and around Boston and the south shore. Tour groups typically consist of no more that 15 members. Members must provide their own transportation to the tour's starting spot. Theatre Outings OLLI members enjoy discounted tickets to select theatre performance in the Boston area. The Theatre Committee works with various production companies to selects shows and dates for OLLI members, and a guest, to attend as a group.  All tickets are available on a first-come, first-served basis. There is a limit of 2 tickets per member. Trips and Travel OLLI members enjoy fun and educational day trips as well as overnight travel opportunities, both domestic and international. Working with local attractions and travel agencies, the travel committee members put together trip itineraries for these overnight trips and promote them to the wider OLLI membership. All participants in OLLI  travel programs, day or overnight, must be an OLLI member at the time of travel. Shared Interest Groups Our social groups meet outside the normal OLLI class environment to discuss and enjoy mutual interests and hobbies. Each group is different depending on its focus, and all provide interesting lifelong learning opportunities as well as fun social experiences. Take a look at our current active ones! Special Events Author talks, current event discussions, summer and winter programming, fundraisers, and other programs are offered throughout the year. Helpful Links Upcoming Events and Programs Teach for OLLI UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms