- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News U.S. Rep. Lynch, Chancellor Suárez-Orozco Announce Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications U.S. Rep. Lynch, Chancellor Suárez-Orozco Announce $3M in Funding for Nursing Lab 01/20/2023 |
    DeWayne Lehman Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences to Add a Home Care Digital Simulation Lab Congressman Stephen F. Lynch was joined by UMass Boston Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco and UMass Board Chair Steve Karam in the nursing simulation lab in the Quinn Administration Building on January 20 to announce $3 million in new funding for the Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences. The federal funds, part of the final 2023 government funding package, will be used to create a Home Care Digital and Simulation Lab. “This is a big deal for UMass Boston,” Chancellor Suárez-Orozco said, opening the press conference. “With this strategic appropriation, UMass Boston will establish a Home Care Digital and Simulation Lab to train the next generation of nurses in evolving home care technologies with a special emphasis on patients who are aging or disabled, or who have experienced health disparities.” The addition will expand the Manning College of Nursing and Health Science’s Center for Clinical Education and Research, which is currently primarily focused on hospital-based training and care. It will also expand UMass Boston’s ability to train more nurses to meet the high demand, according to Provost Joseph Berger and Dean Bo Fernall . “What we are doing here with this $3 million is really allowing for this wonderful institution to provide nurses who are ready on day one who can provide that desperately needed care to the people that we all worry about every single day,” Congressman Lynch said. “I have said to the chancellor that I think we want to be famous for this…. We want to be recognized worldwide for what we are doing here.” Lynch, of South Boston, is a strong supporter of UMass Boston and its nursing program, the ninth largest nursing school in the country with approximately 1,400 students enrolled. Last year he secured a $1.35 million appropriation to begin planning for the new clinical lab and additional space for the college. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms