Respondus - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Tools Respondus Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Echo360 Exam Security And Proctoring Google Workspace Gradescope Iclicker Linkedinlearning Pronto Respondus Turnitin Voicethread Web Conferencing Wordpress Respondus 4.1 Respondus is a useful tool available to UMass Boston faculty that makes it easy to compile and manage quizzes to be published directly to a Learning Management System or printed to paper. Quizzes can be created offline using a Windows PC environment (Mac or Linux are not supported). Request License Respondus enables you to: Create quizzes with up to 15 question types, including calculated and algorithmic formats; Import multiple questions from existing documents (.rtf, .txt, .csv, .doc, .docx, .xml); Access thousands of Respondus-compatible publisher test banks – available for free to instructors who adopt a participating textbook. Get Started with Respondus 4.1 1. Request Installation License UMass Boston provides a license for Respondus for our instructors. During the installation process you will be asked to license your copy. When prompted, enter the information exactly as provided. Request a license for Respondus 4.1 2. Download and Install Respondus 4.1 Once you request the license, you will be provided with an installation file for your PC. Use your UMass Boston email credentials to access the file. 3. Follow the Formatting Standards Compile your quiz questions in a Word document (or any of the other supported formats) according to Respondus standards for question formatting . Sample Files Use these sample files to learn to work with Respondus ( switch to your UMass Boston G Suite account to access the files): 7 question types with answers at the bottom 7 question types with answers inline 4. Publish Quiz Find the Respondus instructions for publishing based on the LMS you are using. Resources Test Bank Network Instructors have access to thousands of test banks for the leading textbooks in higher education when they use Respondus. The Test Bank Network is free for instructors who adopt a participating textbook. Video Demos The following video shows how to compile your questions in Word . There are additional demonstration movies that you might find helpful as you get started with Respondus 4.1. Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms