Support Us - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Gaston Institute Support Us Menu menu Menu About Canala Contact Core Programs In the Media Partners Publications Research Support Us Sponsors Support Us Donate Now Most of our research and public programs are made possible thanks to the generous contributions of sponsors and individual supporters. We welcome your financial support in the following areas: Research and Development We can use this fund to launch promising research initiatives and projects that are timely and responsive to the needs of the community. The Latino Leadership Opportunity Program (LLOP) This is the Institute’s signature program, which provides leadership and public policy training for undergraduate Latino/a students at UMass Boston. The Andres Torres Paper Series on Latinos in the U.S. Endowed through an initial grant by Robert Hildreth and matched by donations by a broad cross-section of our community, the Torres Series sponsors a competition for research on Latino in the U.S. in honor of one of the Institute’s former directors. You can make your gift by check, credit card, or money order by following the instructions below. You will be able to direct your gift to one of the projects mentioned above. Send a Check You can send your check made out to UMass Boston/Gaston Institute to: Donations — Gaston Institute, UMass Boston University of Massachusetts Boston Healey Library, 10th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 To make a gift by check to one of the projects above, please include a note with your check indicating your selection. If no specific selection is made, the donation will go towards Core Support. Give Online To make your gift online visit the Give to UMass Boston page : In-kind Gifts and Planned Giving If you would like to make a gift other than cash, for example a piece of art, books, antiques, equipment, or other items, or are interested in planned giving, please contact Maria Idali Torres (617.287.5790) for additional information. You can also visit the UMass Boston Planned Giving pages for more information on how to make these types of gifts to the Gaston Institute. The Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy Healey Library, 10th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 617.287.5790 Maps & Directions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms