- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Tripled in Size, New Center for Clinical Education Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Nursing & Health Sciences Tripled in Size, New Center for Clinical Education and Research Gives UMass Boston Nursing Students Extra Edge 02/27/2020 |
    Colleen Locke CCER Has Moved from Science Center to Quinn Administration Building Nursing students now have two simulation labs in which to practice their skills. Image By: Colleen Locke The College of Nursing and Health Sciences ’s Center for Clinical Education and Research (CCER) has long given UMass Boston nursing students an advantage as they embark on clinicals and paid nursing jobs. With its move to the first floor of the Quinn Administration Building this semester, the CCER has gone from about 3,000 square feet to just over 10,000, with even more amenities that prepare our students for the workforce. “The new state-of-the-art space allows us to safely educate students to care for patients,” College of Nursing and Health Sciences Dean Linda Thompson said. “It is truly a game-changer for us.” “We’ve designed the environment to resemble a hospital environment as accurately as possible,” said UMass Boston alumna and CCER Director Rosemary Samia. “It really mirrors what they see in the clinical setting, and it familiarizes them with some of the equipment.” Junior nursing student Faith Koroma-Coker gives us a tour of some of the CCER spaces in this video. Sophomore nursing major Josephine Burlingame is a student nurse at St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center. She says she felt comfortable during her orientation earlier this month because the equipment was what she’d been working with at UMass Boston. “I recognized so many things. Even if it’s just stuff on the wall, I’m like, ‘Oh, I’ve seen that before.’ Like, ‘I know what that is,’ instead of going and being like, ‘I don’t know any of this,’” Burlingame said. When the CCER was in the Science Center, the largest room consisted of mannequins in exam beds on two walls surrounding a classroom of desks. Now there are two skills labs, north, pictured above, and south, meaning more simulations can be run at once and there are more opportunities for open labs, where students can practice a skill by themselves or with a graduate teaching assistant for 10 minutes or the full two hours. Samia says during the second week of class, more than 50 students took advantage of the open lab time. And that’s not the only benefit of the larger space. “When we run simulations, one of the important parts is the debriefing at the end of each scenario. The students are debriefed in a private, confidential setting with a simulation educator, and that space didn’t exist in the old lab,” Samia said. “So now we have three debriefing rooms and our reach is much greater than we ever could dream of in the last place.” As a junior, nursing student Stevie Conley has experience working in both the old and new CCER. “The old space was very crammed. For labs, there were 20 of us crammed into one room with all the desks,” Conley said. “Now you can really spread out. … You can really home in on your skills, and learn a lot more. And then there’s a separate classroom for practice questions, reviewing, tutoring, learning a new skill, stuff like that.” Burlingame is among those who have already taken advantage of the separate tutoring space. “I have a lot of exams coming up in the next week, and being in big groups, it’s sometimes hard to really focus in on your skills. I made two appointments this week. Just to be one-on-one with the tutor is really helpful,” Burlingame said. Also new – six outpatient exam rooms and the skills labs are equipped to handle standardized patients, actors portraying patients. Samia is also bringing in people from the Dorchester area to interact with students during their health assessment labs. Students will benefit from interviewing and performing physical assessments on a variety of patients. “I’m hoping to introduce community members and our students and put them together in a learning environment – help each other understand a different perspective of the health care system,” Samia said. “I really enjoy the space because you get more of a hospital feel, I think, of a bigger ward. It’s nice that you get windows, you have the sun in, you get to have more space for interaction, and more experiences for learning. Overall, I think it’s going to be a great experience for current and prospective nursing students,” Conley said. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms