Hiring - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students Student Employment Hiring Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment Community Service Conduct Contact Disciplinary Procedures Eligibility Federal Work Study Hiring Off Campus Work Study Paperwork Resources For Employers Rest Periods Wage Guidelines University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Hiring Steps for Students Step I: Verify Your Eligibility and Interest The Student Employee Handbook sets out specific Conditions of Employment . Once you have reviewed the Conditions of Employment proceed to Step II. Step II: Find a Job Before worrying about any paperwork, focus on finding a job. Federal Work-Study (FWS) and Institutional (Non-Work-Study) Student Employment positions are all located on the Handshake website. (FWS positions are limited to students who have been awarded FWS eligibility by Financial Aid Services.) Follow the application process outlined in the "How To Apply" section of the job posting. Do not move on to Step III until you have been offered and have accepted a position. If you need help with your resume, the ACES Center provides assistance to students. Step III: Complete the Appropriate Paperwork Before you begin working, your student employment eligibility must be verified. You will receive a confirmation email with instructions on how to complete the pre-employment paperwork. Completing Form I-9 (Employment Eligibility Verification) If you have never worked on the UMass Boston campus, you will need to provide specific documentation of your eligibility to work. Please review the acceptable document list . Please be aware that the SES staff must review original documents. Photocopies are not allowed. Completing W-4 and M-4 Forms (Tax Withholding Allowances) All wages earned through both the Institutional (Non-Work-Study) Student Employment and Federal Work-Study Programs are taxable, so all students must complete tax withholding allowance forms. You must complete a W-4 and M-4 if you have never worked at UMass Boston before or if the information you previously reported on the W-4 and M-4 has changed. Employers will complete the electronic Personnel Action Form (ePAF). Please note : Employers may rescind a job offer due to any circumstances, prior to, during or after the employment paperwork process. Conversely, students may decline acceptance at any time. If you decided not to take the job, contact the employer to withdraw your application/acceptance. Step IV: Your Supervisor will complete your Personnel Action Form (ePAF) The ePAF must be completed by your employer and submitted to SES for processing. (The ePAF may only be submitted to SES after your I-9 and W-4 are on file with the office.) Step V: Do Not Work until You Are Authorized You may not start working until the authorized date on the signed Confirmation Sheet. IMPORTANT: You must complete the Form I-9 no later than the first day of employment. The Form I-9 Employment Eligibility Verification is completed in Student Employment Services. Any hours spent by a student at the workplace before an I-9 is completed will be considered as unauthorized. Employment eligibility may be revoked for violation of this policy. If you or your employer have any questions about the hiring process or the status of your paperwork, contact SES for an update. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms