Center Programs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Collaborative Leadership Center Programs Menu menu Menu People Research Center Programs Center Programs For over two decades, the Center for Collaborative Leadership has actively developed future leaders of all backgrounds through the following programs. Emerging Leaders Program (ELP) United States Coast Guard Academy (USCGA) Scholars Program Custom Programs Emerging Leaders Program (ELP) The year-long ELP is fully virtual and brings ~50 rising leaders from the corporate, nonprofit, and government sectors together each year. Participants learn to build leadership capacity for their respective organizations through 50+ hours of interactive skill sessions, Fireside Chats, and team projects. Graduates will have the skills, connections, and support needed to grow and evolve in their organizations. The nomination process for the 2025-2026 Emerging Leaders Program will open this Fall. Each prospective fellow must be nominated by someone in a senior leadership position in their organization. Those nominated will receive an invitation from Leaders@umb.edu to apply online . Application materials include a resume, leadership essay, a brief biography, and a high-resolution photo. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis and will be accepted through July 24, 2025 . Successful candidates will be notified of their admission to the Emerging Leaders Program by July 31, 2025 . Program f ees for nonprofits and government organizations are on a sliding scale to accommodate budgets. Corporate / For Profit: $7500 for 1 fellow Corporate / For Profit: $7000 for 2 or more fellows Nonprofit / Government Revenue $100m+: $7500 for 1 fellow Nonprofit / Government Revenue $100m+: $7000 for 2 or more fellows Nonprofit / Government Revenue $50m - $100m: $5500 for 1 or more fellows Nonprofit / Government Revenue $10m - $50m: $4500 for 1 or more fellows Nonprofit / Government Revenue < $10m: $3500 for 1 or more fellows Want to know more? Email Leaders@umb.edu to register for an upcoming info session. United States Coast Guard Academy (USCGA) Scholars Program The USCGA Scholars Program gives engineering and cyber students an additional year of coursework before entering the academy. This ensures they are prepared to excel in the Coast Guard’s engineering and cyber workforce. With a focus on STEM prep and collaborative leadership development, the partnership offers a focus on the foundations necessary to support cadet success in Engineering and Cyber Systems. In addition, the program supports the USCGA’s mission to produce graduates who are technically educated and prepared for success in their Coast Guard careers. As a minority-serving institution, the third most diverse campus in the country, and STEM programs that enroll significant populations of people of color and women, there is perhaps no better institution from which to begin a pipeline. WHO: First-year UMass Boston students WHAT: A seminar-style intensive l eadership forum WHEN: October 2023 - May 2024—monthly 90-minute sessions; plus, community engagement and action-based learning WHY: Provide opportunities that will both support and challenge students to succeed academically, grow as leaders, and enter the Coast Guard Academy HOW: In partnership with the William Joiner Institute, COSMIC, and the USCGA Custom Programs The Center develops custom in-house leadership development programs in which we provide customized training modules to fit your organization's needs. Programs are designed to engage employees from across the organization to build camaraderie, teamwork, open dialogue, and a collaborative work environment. Recent and current clients include the Boston Public Library, Kraft Group, Boston Public Schools, UMass Boston, and BNY Mellon. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms