Business Travel & Expense Guidelines - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Controller Business Travel & Expense Guidelines Menu menu Menu Contact Enterprise Systems Logins Expenditure Account Codes Financial Reports Forms Important Links Job Aids Memo Policies Property Business Travel & Expense Guidelines University Travel Approval Records & Retention Business Travel & Expense Guidelines Preapproval Guidelines New policy and standards released by UPST for Business & Travel Expenses across all campuses reflect the maximum flexibility allowed by the Board of Trustees and President.  Some expenses in the areas of Travel, Gifts, and Alcohol still require pre-approval by campus management.  Below are the campus requirements for pre-approval of these expenses. Alcohol at Events The purchase of alcoholic beverages is highly discouraged due to the expense and potential liabilities involved and must be approved prior to the event.  All preapproval requests are submitted to the Chancellor’s Office and, if the event is to be held on campus, additional approval will be required by Public Safety and must follow the campus alcohol policy. Campus Alcohol Policy (https://www.umb.edu/news_events_media/events/special/policies/alcohol) Events in Excess of $500 GUIDELINES COMING SOON Gifts or Awards to Employees Gifts to University employees other than those provided through official recognition programs authorized by the Human Resource Department should not be purchased with university funds. The following official recognition programs are authorized by the Office of Human Resources: Years of Service Awards. Such programs are considered official when organized by the Office of Human Resources. Department Employee Recognition. Departments are delegated the authority to recognize an employee in regard to outstanding work-related accomplishments at a cost of up to $100/award (such as with a plaque or book). For purposes of this guideline, gift cards are not allowed. Retirement. When an employee retires from UMass Boston, the employee receives the gift of a personalized university chair. The employee may choose instead to donate the cost of the chair to a UMass Boston scholarship fund or UMass Boston departmental fund. Memorials. In the event of the death of a UMass Boston employee, the Office of Human Resources will send flowers from the chancellor. If the deceased employee’s family requests donations in lieu of flowers to a bona fide charity, the university may make such contribution to the designated charity in an amount not to exceed the cost of flowers. Gifts or Awards provided to an external Organization Contributions and gifts to external organizations are strongly discouraged and must be approved by the Chancellor’s Office. Gift Cards The purchase of gift cards is allowed for research related activities only.  They must be purchased using the University’s declining balance credit card, a process coordinated and approved by the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. See the following link for additional details about the process. UMB Gift Card Procedure (https://www.umb.edu/orsp/research_policies/topic#panel_right_13) Cell Phones Mobile Devices (IPhones and other smartphones) are purchased and managed by the IT Telecom Department.  Purchases made by any other department are not allowable and will not be reimbursed if purchased by an individual.  For those approved or required to have a university issued phone, the following link Telecom Mobile Request should be used to request a device. IT Telecom offers a variety of services, including providing a loaner program for those in need of a phone for a short period of time.  More about Mobile Devices can be found at Telecom Mobile International Travel Pre-travel authorization is required for ALL travel and registered in the university’s travel registry (Terra Dotta) if international or overnight, out-of-state domestic.  Forms must be signed by the traveler’s direct supervisor and uploaded into the university’s travel registry.  Additional requirements must be met when traveling to high-risk areas, as determined by the U.S. State Department to be level 3 or 4, or student group travel.  Additional guidelines can be found on the Controller’s website University Travel Approval along with the required 22.11.09_CON-03_Pre-Travel_Authorization_Form.pdf Controller's Office UMass Boston Quinn Administration Building 3rd Floor p | 617.287.5120 f | 617.287.5193 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms