Making Up Missed Work - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Return To Campus Teach Making Up Missed Work Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Exam Resources Keeping Up With Content Making Up Missed Work Planning For Missed Exams Staying Connected Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Making Up Missed Work Recordings Recorded classes "I use a tablet and the projector in the classroom to have all my lecture work on my computer and projected on the screen for students in class. I also open a Zoom room, while sharing that screen, so anyone on Zoom can see and hear the same material from home. I also usually record that Zoom meeting so others can re-watch later." -Eric Semple (Associate Lecturer, Department of Mathematics) "Video recording of class sessions should be an option for students who cannot attend classes regularly amid unavoidable circumstances." -Nurul Aman (Senior Lecturer II, Department of Economics) Provide access to "recorded lecture videos from last semester using Echo360." -Jonathan Frankel (Senior Lecturer II, Department of Management Science & Information Systems) "In-class courses are recorded on Echo360, online courses are always available, & I encourage students in both types [F2F or remote] to correspond & share ideas with classmates." -Edw. S. Ginsberg (Associate Professor, Department of Physics) VoiceThread "Having taught last year remotely, I developed lecture notes and VoiceThreads for every week of my course that coincide with learning that happens live and can make them available for students who have excused prolonged absences... With VoiceThreads, it is also possible to verify whether the student viewed the material." -Amy Cook (Associate Professor, Department Chair of Counseling and School Psychology, GPD of Counseling Program) Lecture Notes Blackboard "Whether I teach online or on campus, I use Blackboard to store the weekly materials for students to access when needed. The materials can be viewable to all students, or the instructor can choose to make them accessible to only those who had an excused absence." -Amy Cook (Associate Professor, Department Chair of Counseling and School Psychology, GPD of Counseling Program) Missed Assignments and Labs Makeup Work for Missed Assignments or Extra Credit to Bolster Low Assignment Scores For more details on Prof. Chen's planning for student absences, see recording from Jan 20 TEACH session I provided "extra credit (paper, questions) available to make up to make up for missed weekly assignments or anything else." The information provided in the syllabus was: An optional 5-10 page paper on some aspect of environmental science of interest to the student may be written to increase the course grade. If well-written, the final grade may increase by as much as two-thirds of a letter grade (for example from C to B-). The instructor will be available to suggest topics and provide direction for this project. [Name of TA] must approve your paper topic by [date]. Papers are due by [date], the last day of class. -Bob Chen (Professor and Interim Dean, School for the Environment) Missed Labs "I had over 20 students in EnvSci121 miss required in-person hands-on labs due to Covid-19 and other issues. In Fall 2021, we were live, but in Spring 2021, I'd taught the course virtually using many new virtual labs. Several of these Spring 2021 virtual labs were based on SimBio simulations. For all students with excused absences, we allowed them to make up to 3 labs with SimBio replacements. Of the more than 20 students needing make-up labs, only 13 registered for one, 5 for two, and two for 3." -Eugene Gallagher (Associate Professor, School for the Environment) For more details on Prof. Huang's approaches to missed labs, see recording from Jan 20 TEACH session "We had a plan each week for how students could make up the lab assignments. The lab part was complicated and required extra work from all (including TAs & lab coordinator) and the plan differed depending on the specific lab & goal of the lab." -Linda Huang (Professor, Department of Biology) Alternatives to Attending Guidance for Students Built into Course Design Summary of " 10 steps to help student succeed when they cannot attend class in person due to COVID " and see more details on Prof. Wibiralske's strategies in the recording of the TEACH session from Jan 20 -Charles Wibiralske (Lecturer and Course Coordinator for MATH 114QR, Department of Mathematics) Learning Design Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor Monday—Friday 9 a.m.–5 p.m. Book a Consult Now learningdesign@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms