- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News College of Science and Mathematics Student Named a Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Research Science & Mathematics College of Science and Mathematics Student Named a Goldwater Scholar 04/12/2023 |
    Sandra Mason Kenji Maeda, a second-year engineering physics major, was named a 2023 Barry M. Goldwater Scholar. This is the fifth consecutive year that a UMass Boston student has been selected to receive the esteemed award, and the third time in the last five years that a student from the Physics Department has been chosen. “ We are extremely proud of Kenji Maeda and of the support for research excellence that is a hallmark of the Physics Department. ” The Goldwater Scholarship Program is designed to foster and encourage outstanding college sophomores and juniors to pursue research careers in mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering. Undergraduate students who receive the award demonstrate a passion for doing research and also exhibit the creative spark that can lead to becoming leaders in their fields. “We are extremely proud of Kenji Maeda and also of the support for research excellence that is a hallmark of the UMass Boston Physics Department,” said Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco . “The Goldwater Scholarship is considered the preeminent scholarship in the nation for undergraduates planning to pursue PhDs in science and mathematics fields. This is a highly impressive achievement.” Maeda’s path in quantum physics began last summer when he noticed a poster advertising Assistant Professor of Physics Akira Sone ’s Quantum Information course. He took the class, along with a class on the fundamentals of quantum physics with Professor and Physics Department Chair Rahul Kulkarni . Mid-semester, Sone invited Maeda to join his quantum thermodynamics research team and encouraged him to develop a strong foundation by reading a wide range of literature on quantum physics. “Kenji is a remarkable student,” Sone said. “Earning a Goldwater scholarship is a result of his dedication to his work in quantum information theory, his love and intuition for physics, and his exceptional mathematical skill in analytics and numerics. “Our faculty are humbled and thrilled that the rigorous research in quantum physics taking place at UMass Boston provides opportunities and support for students to achieve the highest levels of academic excellence and sets them up for exciting futures in the field.” Maeda explained he is working on a project about quantum thermodynamics to explain the laws of thermodynamics from the perspective of quantum information science. “In our research group, we are examining how the application of our special measurement scheme on quantum systems would yield informative results compared to using other measurement schemes,” Maeda said. He is looking forward to taking advanced physics courses and upper-level engineering courses during his junior and senior years––especially Quantum Information II & IV. Once he completes his undergraduate degree, he intends to pursue a PhD in physics. “In the future, I would like to contribute to the development of quantum-related technology such as quantum computer, sensing, and communication,” Maeda said. Deeply appreciative of the inspiration, guidance, and spirit of collaboration from faculty such as Sone and Kulkarni, along with Assistant Professor Sumientra Rampersad , and Assistant Professor Olga Goulko , and his classmates and physics graduate students, Maeda said, “I have earned this honor with everyone.” Goldwater scholarships are awarded annually by the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation, an organization established by Congress in 1986 to honor the lifetime work of the late Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater. From an estimated pool of over 5,000 college sophomores and juniors, 1,267 natural science, engineering and mathematics students were nominated by 427 academic institutions to compete for the 2023 Goldwater scholarships. This year, 413 scholarships were awarded. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms