Diversity & Inclusion - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Study Abroad Getting Started Diversity & Inclusion Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Getting Started Diversity & Inclusion FAQs Student Stories Study Abroad Programs Faculty Taught International Programs Requirements Financing Study Abroad Health & Safety Before You Go When You Return Fellowships Provost's Office Diversity & Inclusion The Office of Global Programs is committed to helping all UMass Boston students study abroad. We believe all students should have the opportunity to study abroad regardless of their background. Every student faces challenges when planning a trip and living abroad. Students may find that a number of factors influence their experience, including nationality, race and ethnicity, disability, religion, gender, sexual orientation, and others. We have compiled resources that can be used to help support your study abroad goals, and are here to help make those goals a reality. Letting us know about your specific concerns studying abroad will only help your experience while abroad. We will do whatever we can to ensure that you have a happy, safe, and rewarding time living abroad. On this page you will find information on: Disability Support and Study Abroad Gender and Study Abroad LGBTIQ+ and Study Abroad Non-Traditional Students and Study Abroad Race and Ethnicity and Study Abroad Religion and Study Abroad Disability Support and Study Abroad If you have a disability, accommodations can be made in order for you to go abroad. The biggest factor in ensuring this is to prepare early. Here are steps we encourage you to take as soon as possible: Disclose your disability to the Study Abroad advisor. This will allow the advisor to immediately start making arrangements in advance for your trip. Go to the UMass Boston Ross Center for Disability Services and the UMass Boston Counseling Center . These centers are here for you to help students identity and access the most appropriate services for your situation. Research locations. Some cultures provide different accommodations for those with disabilities. Learn about accommodations in the host country and be flexible/open to alternative ways of accommodating your disability. Some programs/countries better support those with disabilities than others. Sufficient research and information is needed to make the right decisions to ensuring your disability is accommodated for your time abroad. Think about how you will answer questions about your disability- learn key vocabulary words ahead of time. Resources for Disabilities and Study Abroad: National Clearinghouse on Disability and Exchange: A World Awaits You- Students with Disabilities Studying Abroad Mobility International: A World of Equal Opportunity University of Minnesota Access Abroad : a resource to provide information and guidance on accessibility overseas. Mobility International: Preparations for Travel with Mental Health Conditions University of South Florida Mental Health Wellness Abroad compilation Gender and Study Abroad Research your host country's cultural values and attitude toward women. Also find out local attitudes toward American women. There are ways to plan for your safety abroad. Here are many resources if you are a woman going abroad: U.S. State Department Information for Women Travelers Government of Canada: Her own way- a woman's safe travel guide The Center for Global Education: Sexual Harassment and Prevention in College Students Studying Abroad Safety Tips for Solo Women Travelers Wanderlust and Lipstick: women-focused travel site LGBTIQ+ and Study Abroad Some countries and cultures are open to accepting LGBTIQ+ people, but in other places you may encounter staring or hostility. Some places where you openly display affection to your same-sex partner can put your physical safety at risk. Find out what rights LGBTIQ+ have in your host country. Also research what kinds of behavior are considered appropriate for friendship and dating. Being aware of attitudes, customs, and laws of your host country is vital for your safety and experience. There are many resources for LGBTIQ+ students studying abroad. Rainbow Sig: Resources for LGBTIQ+ Study Abroad Students Go Abroad: LGBT Study Abroad Guide ILGA: Sexual Orientation Laws map of the world Education Abroad: LGBT Student Guide for Education Abroad U.S. State Department: LGBTI Travel Information Study Abroad Scholarships for LGBT Students OutRight Action International Diversity Abroad: LGBTQ+ Students Abroad National Center for Transgender Equality International CISabroad compiled a list of the Top 10 LGBTQ Friendly Semester programs Non-Traditional Students and Study Abroad Must Ask Questions for Adult Students from Diversity Abroad's: Adult Study Abroad Do I have work, home, and/or family obligations that prevent me from studying abroad for an extended period of time? Will there be other adult students in my program? How old are the other students participating in my program? How do people in my host country view adult students? What skills do I want to gain or improve while I’m abroad? Tips from Diversity Abroad's: Adult Study Abroad Look into short term programs if you cannot afford to spend an extended period of time away from your family and can’t take too much time off work Talk with other adult students who have studied abroad. Sometimes you might feel that you don’t fit in, but remember not to isolate yourself from the rest of the group. Get to know the others and let them get to know you. Research what people close to your age in the country you will be studying in and the areas they may live. For example, do they work? Take care of their children and/or parents? Live alone or with extended family? Race and Ethnicity and Study Abroad "As a student traveling abroad you may be concerned about potential racial bias and prejudice without your usual support system. Or, you may be looking forward to being part of the majority population for the first time in your life. You may find that confronting and coping to a community with a different racial and ethnic makeup can be a learning experience." - Michigan State University's Michigan State University's Diversity Abroad: Race and Ethnicity While abroad, you may first be identified as an American. They people you meet will likely have an opinion about the US and make assumptions based on your physical appearance. "If somebody says or does something that is offensive to you, try to distinguish between a person who is genuinely curious about you and your culture and someone who has bad intentions. You may find yourself in some uncomfortable situations, and always remember to put your safety first." - Diversity Abroad's Racial & Ethnic Minority Students Abroad Other resources to help you prepare for your study abroad trip as a racial or ethnic minority: Diversity and Inclusion Abroad Guide: Minority and Students of Color Abroad AllAbroad.us: Helping All Students to Study Abroad Scholarships for BIPOC Students Studying Abroad Religion and Study Abroad Become familiar with the world's religions and how religious diversity is understood across cultures. While abroad, you may encounter people of various religions or people with non-religious backgrounds. It is important for you to understand your beliefs and the beliefs of your host country in order to have a safe and meaningful experience abroad. Resources for religion and study abroad: UMass Boston Interfaith Campus Ministry Diversity Abroad: Religious Diversity Abroad U.S. Department of State: International Religious Freedom Report UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms