Kuali - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Kuali Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Kuali UMass Boston's Electronic Research Administration (eRA) System Kuali (Log In Here) Kuali Build Forms (Log In Here) Kuali Research Resources Instructions for submitting COI Disclosures Instructions for submitting an IACUC Protocol Instructions for submitting to the IRB CITI Training UMass Boston now uses single sign-on (SSO) for all CITI training. Please log in and associate your CITI training with UMass Boston (for individuals with a UMass Boston email). Use the UMass Boston CITI Single Sign-On (SSO) link above. Enter your campus-wide UMass Boston email and password. Note: If you are prompted to link your existing UMass Boston CITI account to the SSO, select "Log in Through My Organization" and scroll to "University of Massachusetts Boston" ( CITI Training Instructions ). Kuali Proposal Development Approver Training Sessions Sign up for a 1-hour session using the links below: Tuesday, September 24 from 3 - 4 p.m. Monday, October 28 from 4 - 5 p.m. Kuali Proposal Development Aggregator (proposal entry) Training Sessions Sign up for a 2-hour session using the links below: Tuesday, September 24 from 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. Monday, October 28 from 10 - 11 a.m. Kuali Proposal Development Resources Kuali Approver Quick Reference Video Kuali Approver Guide Kuali Proposal Development Aggregator Guide Kuali Internal Funding Programs Guide Overview The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs is in the process of implementing the transition to Kuali Research as the new Electronic Research Administration (eRA) system for the campus. Over the next several months, multiple stakeholders – including faculty and staff campus wide – will be asked to participate in this project to provide input on our business processes which will help shape this system to be as impactful as possible for our campus.  We have already implemented all of the back office modules, and will now be focusing on rolling out the PI-facing modules of Protocols (both IRB and IACUC), Conflicts of Interest, and Proposal Development. Kuali Modules Module Name: Institutional Proposal (IP) and Awards Status: Completed January 2021 The first step to moving from a paper based process to Kuali is migrating data and creating Institutional Proposals for all existing sponsored awards. This covers all historical sponsored project records as part of a data conversion process. The IP records will contain summary data of proposals that have already been reviewed and approved by ORSP and submitted to sponsoring organizations. Each proposal is assigned an IP number, a unique identifier that allows users to search for a particular proposal. The IP record contains reportable information such as basic proposal information, personnel information, budget, and sponsor information. Once a proposal is funded, the data in the IP record is used as the basis of the Award record and is fed into PeopleSoft Finance improving the quality and timeliness of the award setup process. Module Name: Protocols IACUC Status: Completed October 2021 Protocols for Animal Use/IACUC work will transition to Kuali in the late Summer to early Fall 2021. The Protocols module streamlines the development of protocols and facilitates best practices in protocol management throughout the protocol lifecycle. Kuali will facilitate fast, clear, and specific communication between the IACUC and animal researchers to ensure efficiency and compliance. Module Name: Conflict of Interest (COI) Status: Completed October 2021 The Conflict of Interest module will be used by faculty and research staff to report and update all required disclosures as necessary. The COI module will be populated with all relevant questions for PIs and personnel to review and attest to. Module Name: Protocols (IRB) Status: Completed March 2022 Protocols for Human Research/IRB will transition to Kuali in March 2022. Similarly to the IACUC module, this will streamline the development of human research protocols and facilitate best practices in protocol management throughout the protocol lifecycle and improve communication between the IRB and researchers to ensure efficiency and compliance. Module Name: Proposal Development (PD) Status: Completed Fall-Winter 2022-2023 The PD module will replace all paper based grant submissions, and once rolled out faculty and staff will create and route a proposal for approval and submission. The PD module has a place for all of the information needed for a complete proposal including basic proposal information, personnel information, proposal attachments, and budget. The PD module is tied to a list of sponsors, organizations (for subawardees), UMass Boston personnel, and an address book (external to UMass Boston contacts). This process replaces the use of all paper based routing and supports electronic grant submissions. Improved offerings include: Our Kuali eRA system will provide researchers with administrative and compliance support  commensurate with leading research universities. Kuali offers many improvements over the current paper-based systems, including: Electronic preparation, review and submissions of grant proposals and all IRB and IACUC protocols Elimination of our paper based, grant preparation and internal routing processes Easy navigation and a modern, user-friendly interface that includes a principal investigator dashboard A single repository for all proposal, award, and compliance information Productivity and reporting tools to streamline and better manage the full lifecycle of sponsored projects Reporting capabilities that offer users the tools to leverage our powerful repository of information to gain important insights and make more informed decisions What do you need to know? October 2022 update Implementation of COI, IACUC and IRB is complete. Kuali Proposal Development (PD) Phase 1 Rollout for Group 1 targeted for 11/28/2022. Presentation to Deans introducing Kuali PD was held 10/5/2022. Kuali PD Training being developed. Sept 2021 update Implementation of COI, IACUC and IRB are on target. Presentations to Deans to introduce the changes and impacts. Larger campus-wide communications, training and outreach being developed. Feb 2021 update Implementation of the Institutional Proposal and Awards modules occurred on 2/1/2021. Planning for Proposal Development, COI, IRB and IACUC will occur in February and March 2021. Stakeholder engagement to review business processes  and focus groups and other opportunities for faculty and staff to provide feedback throughout the process Feb 2020 update There are no immediate changes or steps that you need to take Implementation will take place in the next few months. The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs will share a more detailed timeline in February Next steps include stakeholder engagement to review business processes and build system integrations (including campus kick off meetings on February 7 and 8) There will be focus groups and other opportunities for faculty and staff to provide feedback throughout the process Need more information? For questions regarding the project, please email ORSP . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms