Accessible Documents - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Accessibility Accessible Documents Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Accessible Documents Accessible Multimedia Accessible Pdfs Voluntary Product Accessibility Template Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools What Makes a Document Accessible? An accessible document is one that has clear and consistent formatting and can be read electronically. Accessible documents are easier to navigate and comprehend, and they offer compatibility across programs and devices making the document usable for all students, including those who rely on screen-reading technology. Resources Guide for Creating Accessible Documents NCDAE How-to Cheatsheets Blackboard Ally SensusAccess Document Converter Tool Tools and Resources For general best-practices to apply as you create and update content, follow our Guide for Creating Accessible Documents . Blackboard Ally Ally is a new feature available in all Blackboard courses that automatically rates the accessibility of documents and multimedia posted in Blackboard and provides instructors with step-by-step guidance to repair documents and replace them with more accessible versions. Learn more about Ally. How-to Cheat Sheets (NCDAE) The National Center on Disability and Access to Education (NCDAE) provides simple one page instructions to create various types of accessible documents, based on the type of document and the version of software available to you (Including Word, PDF, PPT and more). Word 2016 (Windows) Word 2016 (Mac) PowerPoint 2016 (Windows) PowerPoint 2016 (Mac) Visit the NCDAE web page for additional guides. Update Your Software A way to ensure both accessibility and compatibility is to use the most up-to-date software available. UMass Boston provides Microsoft Office and other software for free to faculty. Visit the UMass Boston Microsoft Office web page for details. SensusAccess Document Converter Tool This self-service tool helps with the conversion of web pages and documents into accessible PDFs and MP3 recordings. Use SensusAccess Document Converter . What is a Screen Reader? A screen reader is a software application that converts visual web content into synthesized speech, allowing the user to listen to content. A good practice is to download a screen reader emulator so you can “view” your content from the point of view of a student who may require the use of such an application. Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms