Saturday Camp - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Development & Education Camp Shriver & Community Programs Saturday Camp Menu menu Menu People Research & Evaluation Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Impact Report, Mission, Model & Evaluation Summer Stars Saturday Camp Staff and Volunteers Boston Marathon Team TCS New York City Marathon Team International Marathons and Premier Race Events Thrive for Shriver Challenge Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner Media Packet And Publications Best Practices for Inclusive Camps Center Academics Saturday Camp What does Camp Shriver mean to the 120 children we serve each year? Fun! We know that Camp Shriver has an impact on campers’ social and motor skills (see Camp Shriver Evaluation), but for campers, the summer is about fun, games and friends. Start Saturday Camp Application Applications for Saturday Camp are open and will close on Sept. 15. Why does the fun have to end when summer ends? Together with our partner, the Boys and Girls Clubs of Dorchester , the Center for Social Development and Education is pleased to announce the launch of our latest program: Saturday Camp. This program not only continues the summer fun, it also continues to promote children’s motor and social development. Saturday Camp meets two Saturdays each month to provide continual access to inclusive recreational opportunities and help our campers, with and without disabilities, build healthy habits for life. On every other Saturday, campers (half of whom have a disability) gather together with friends from the summer, new friends from their local neighborhood, and the familiar faces of their coaches and counselors to participate in a variety of inclusive activates, including swimming, music, and team sports. Saturday Camp provides opportunities for motor skill development through the use of the Let’s All Play curriculum and other inclusive sport lessons. All activities are specifically designed to meet the needs of children with disabilities to ensure that all children have an opportunity to play. In the future, CSDE will be launching similar efforts in additional communities throughout Boston. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms