Plan to Pay - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Bursar Plan to Pay Menu menu Menu Plan to Pay Financial Responsibility Agreement Tuition & Fees Payment Information Student Refunds Health Insurance Bookstore Advance Student Tax Information Forms Assistance Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Plan to Pay The university has made some important changes that will allow students to receive financial aid, billing, and payment information earlier then ever before. Students are also now required to make a plan to pay the balance of their bill by the due date. Improvements made: Tuition & Fees Rates are posted on the Bursar website. Financial Aid packages are available in early July (for fall students who submitted a FAFSA by the May 1 priority deadline and completed all related To-Do list items). Registered students can view charges in WISER in early July for fall and early January for spring. Enrollment for a payment plan is available once charges are in WISER. See more about how to enroll, including a how-to video . Actions you can take: Register early. By registering as early as you can, you can take advantage of the best selection of courses. Remember that you can always make adjustments as needed. Submit your FAFSA by the priority deadline to make sure your aid is packaged as early as possible. Make a plan to pay. This means you should review your bill early to understand how much of your balance will not be covered by financial aid and 3 rd party payments (waivers, loans, etc.) and how you will pay that amount by the due date on the bill. . What will Happen: Any balance must be paid in full or a payment plan must be in place before the start of the semester or your courses may be dropped and you will have to re-enroll. If you do not intend to attend classes that you have registered for, you must drop them before the add/drop deadline or you may be charged for them.  Non-payment or refusing to make a plan to pay does not guarantee that you will be dropped from courses.  Please refer to the Student Financial Responsibility Agreement or contact the One-Stop with questions. Fall 2024 Registration, Aid and Billing FAQ's NOTE: DO NOT use the plan to pay process as a way to drop courses.  Students MUST drop courses that they don’t plan to attend THEMSELVES or they may be responsible for the cost. UMB Staff cannot drop courses for students. *On July 22, 2024, an invoice was posted in error that displayed a September 1 due date on some accounts with an August 1 st due date.  Please be advised that the incorrect invoices have been removed and the due date remains August 1st. We apologize for any confusion the invoice might have created. What are the changes for Fall 2024 registration and billing? New Changes for Fall 2024. Pay your bill in full by the due date on your original bill . Any balance must be paid in full before the due date, or your class schedule could be dropped. To be Plan to Pay compliant health insurance must be waived by the due date or payment will need to be made for the health insurance policy by the due date. Why are these changes being made? These changes are designed to provide clear deadlines and to support students in finalizing their plans for fall courses earlier in the cycle. Student success is UMass Boston’s #1 priority. The policy aims to ensure that enrolled students are informed about their financial obligation and remain on the road to completion of their degree without incurring unnecessary debt. These changes build on UMass Boston’s existing foundation from last year: Over 80% of students had already signed up for classes by July 1 st . Students with plans to pay had better success rates than those who did not. Having clear deadlines helps students get their plans to pay in place and more readily allows staff to assist them in this process . What changes have been made to the payment plan this fall? The due date for all monthly payment plan payments will be the 1st of the month. I am concerned that my classes could be dropped, how can I avoid it? The drop can be avoided by: Paying your bill in full by the payment due or Setting up a payment plan by the payment due date. Paying attention to notices from the Bursar’s Office if you owe a balance and following the steps in the notices to ensure your account will remain in good standing. What if I have a third-party waiver or outside scholarship paying for part of all of the classes for which I am registered? Please reach out to the Bursar's Office by emailing to UMBTuitionWaiver@umb.edu with appropriate documents for settling your student account. What if I failed a course in the spring but didn't learn that I failed it until after the registration deadline? There will be information provided to those students who fail a course in Spring 2024 who need to or would like to retake the course in summer about how to register for such a course(s) later this spring. What if I am waiting for an outside scholarship, funds from a 529 plan, or another source? You may be asked to provide some documentation to avoid the hold being added You can submit information supporting your plan to pay for review by UMB staff through contact with the One-Stop or Bursar’s Office . What if I am a residential student planning to live in the Motley residence halls this fall? You will be billed separately for your housing costs by COCM. Your residential meal plan will be automatically added to your bill once your contract to live in student housing is complete. What kind of documentation do I have to provide for 3rd party payments of my bill? First, if you are a continuing student and have had a 3 rd party payor in the past, you may not need to provide documentation. Check with the One-Stop to be sure. Ex. 3 rd party Contracts, Award Letters, National Guard Certificates, Financial Guarantee Letters, or Purchase Order should be submitted to the Bursar's Office ASAP. I have an assistantship, does this change anything? Yes.  Provide proof of that to the One-Stop or Bursar as part of your plan to pay. I am a Shorelight Student, does this change anything? Yes.  Shorelight students are exempt once payment has been received by Shorelight.  Any Shorelight scholarship will also be added to your account through communication with Shorelight. Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms