UMass Boston, Nursing Program Shine on 2022 U.S. N - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 UMass Boston, Nursing Program Shine on 2022 U.S. N Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications U.S. News: UMass Boston Once Again a Top Tier National University 09/13/2021 |
    Gray Milkowski For the sixth year in a row, the University of Massachusetts Boston has been ranked in the top tier of national universities, according to a report released today by U.S. News and World Report. The school’s undergraduate nursing program was also ranked among the best in the country in the first-ever rankings of such programs by U.S. News, coming in strongly at No. 43. Image By: Ed Collier, UMass Boston “ Just the latest numbers to underscore the world-class academic experience that UMass Boston offers each of our students. ” Citing positive marks on class sizes, faculty expertise, and graduation rates, UMass Boston tied with several other schools for No. 227 in the 2022 Best National University Rankings . The university also received high marks in other categories in the report, ranking No. 36 in the nation for social mobility , No. 19 for ethnic diversity , and No. 112 overall among national public universities . “Today’s rankings are just the latest numbers to underscore the world-class academic experience that UMass Boston offers each of our students,” said Chancellor Marcelo Suárez Orozco. “They not only reflect the excellence of our faculty and rigor of our curriculum, but are also emblematic of the impressive accomplishments and resolute work of our students, our staff, and the entire university community.” The report’s inaugural ranking of undergraduate nursing programs vaulted UMass Boston high on the list, joining several other top-ranked programs at the Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences. Earlier this year, U.S. News ranked the school as No. 63 on its list of best master’s in nursing programs , and No. 86 on its list of best doctor of nursing practice programs . “The rankings released today further validate our strengths as we continue to advance the Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences,” said Provost Joseph Berger. “Fueled by faculty and staff that are among the best in the country, students with a relentless drive to succeed and help others, and the recent, historic, gift from Robert and Donna Manning, I am confident that the program’s positive impact and future trajectory will continue to accelerate even further.” U.S. News also ranked UMass Boston’s engineering program and computer science program among the best in the country, at No. 62 and No. 178, respectively. With their national rankings, the undergraduate programs join the 12 top-tier graduate programs that were recognized by U.S. News earlier this year. Among them were the rehabilitation counseling program at No. 15, the education program at No. 48, the clinical psychology at No. 56, and the public affairs program at No. 69. The U.S. News & World Report rankings, conducted annually, are based on statistics and expert opinions that measure the quality of a school’s faculty, research and students. All of the rankings assess both the preparedness of a school's incoming students and the career or academic outcomes of a school's graduates. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city’s history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public research university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 207 undergraduate, graduate, and certificate programs, offered through its 8 colleges and schools, serve more than 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms