Uploading Documentation - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Health Services Immunizations & Health Requirements Uploading Documentation Menu menu Menu About Emergencies Health Happenings Counseling Center General Medicine Wellness Patient Resources Immunizations & Health Requirements Uploading Documentation Exemptions Forms Billing My Health Beacon Portal General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu Uploading Health Documentation Using My Health Beacon Portal The easiest and fastest way to submit vaccine records, lab results, and other health records is through the My Health Beacon Portal . Follow the steps below to upload your documents. Uploading Vaccine Records, Lab Results, and Other Documents Log In: Access your My Health Beacon Portal . Navigate to Forms: Click on the "Health Requirements and Forms" tab on the home page, located in the left-hand column. This will bring you to your individualized compliance page, where you can track the status of all your requirements. Update Immunizations: Locate the "Immunization Records" requirement and click on the "Update" tab to arrive at the upload window. Upload Documents: Click on the "Upload" tab and select the document you want to upload. If you have multiple documents, you may have to submit each separately. Ensure all documents have your full name and date of birth. Accepted formats include GIF, JPF, PGN, and PDF (do not upload MS Word documents). Review and Update: Depending on the volume, UHS will review your submission as soon as possible and update your status. Note: A healthcare provider can fill out the Immunization Form 2024-2025 , which you can then upload to the My Health Beacon Portal. Tuberculosis (TB) Screening Log In: Access your My Health Beacon Portal . Navigate to Forms: Click on the "Health Requirements and Forms" tab on the home page, located in the left-hand column. This will bring you to your individualized compliance page, where you can track the status of all your requirements. Update TB Screening: Locate the " TB Screen-Risk Form " requirement and click on the " Update " tab to access the TB Screening Form. Submit: Depending on the volume, UHS will review your submission as soon as possible and update your status. Other Methods to Submit Health Documents While we highly recommend using the My Health Beacon Portal to expedite the verification process, health records can also be faxed or mailed to University Health Services. Please ensure all pages include your full name and date of birth. Fax Records : (617) 287-3977 (ATTN: Immunization Compliance Coordinator). Mail Records : University of Massachusetts Boston - University Health Services, 100 Morrissey Blvd., Boston, MA 02125 Email : UHS@umb.edu (note: this is not a secure option) For any questions or assistance, contact University Health Services at (617) 287-5660 or email UHS@umb.edu . General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms