Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Honors College Academics Student Resources Menu menu Menu Academics Events & Activities Student Resources Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Dean's Office Join the Honors College Student Resources The Honors College offers a singular experience that enables students to explore innovative and unique ways of understanding the world. In addition to special benefits, the experience also comes with high expectations in terms of academic performance and coursework. Please review the below resources for more information about the college and how to be successful within our community. Honors College FAQs Find answers to common Honors Advising student questions. Read more about Honors College FAQs » Curricular Overview Visit the curriculum page for a complete overview of our curriculum. If you have questions, please visit the Honors College front desk to set up an appointment with an Honors College advisor. Read more about Curricular Overview » Student Guide Check out the most recent Honors College Student Guide for more details on resources, expectations, and opportunities associated with the college. Read more about Student Guide » Honors College Academic Plan Worksheet Working on what classes to take and when? Print out this worksheet as it can help you figure out when to take what Honors College classes. Honors College advisers may also use this in advising meetings. Questions? Please visit the Honors College front desk to set up an appointment with an Honors College advisor. Read more about Honors College Academic Plan Worksheet » Student Success Toolbox The University Advising Center hosts a rich page that contains a number of resources including academic success strategies and tools, such as a GPA calculator. Read more about Student Success Toolbox » Thesis/Final Project Requirements Tip Sheet Getting ready to start your senior thesis/final project? Check out this helpful tip sheet. Read more about Thesis/Final Project Requirements Tip Sheet » UMB Campus Resources for Mental Health and Wellness Resources for mental health and wellness are available for all students at UMass Boston. Check out this link to access resources and discover new ways to improve mental and physical wellbeing. Read more about UMB Campus Resources for Mental Health and Wellness » College of Science and Mathematics Major Four-Year Plans In an effort to allow students to map out their major requirements and graduation requirements, the Honors College and the CSM Student Success Center has created four year graduations plans for nearly every CSM major. The Four-Year Plans were designed in consultation with CSM departments and reflect the suggested progression of courses to maximize each major's offerings. Please note that these are suggested plans, not required. They provide a framework for understanding degree requirements and do not guarantee graduation. Please consult with an Honors College or CSM advisor for more information. Read more about College of Science and Mathematics Major Four-Year Plans » Honors Course Plan for Nursing Majors Attached is a potential curricular path for Nursing majors in the Honors College. Please see your Honors College or nursing advisor to discuss if this plan will work for you. Read more about Honors Course Plan for Nursing Majors » Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Programs Earn a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in as little as five years. Read more about Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Programs » National and International Fellowships Find more information on National and International Fellowships here . Read more about National and International Fellowships Peace Corps Prep Program Find more information on the Peace Corps Peace Program Read more about Peace Corps Prep Program Internships in Health and Life Science Research Resources for finding Internships in Health and Life Sciences Internships in Health and Life Science Research UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms