- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2022 Applied Linguistics Professors Awarded $2.9M for D Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Applied Linguistics Professors Awarded $2.9M for Development Program for Teachers of English Learners 12/20/2022 |
    Sandra Mason UMass Boston Associate Professor of Applied Linguistics Avary Carhill-Poza and Professor of Applied Linguistics Panayota Gounari have been awarded a prestigious five-year, $2.9 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education’s National Professional Development (NPD) program. “ The funding will enable us to partner with school districts to create equitable learning environments for English learners. ” The project, Centering Relationships, Equity, and Access for Teachers of English Learners (CREATE), is a rigorous professional development program that offers a practical solution for the shortage of qualified, diverse teachers of English learners in eight urban high-needs public school districts in Greater Boston. Educators participating in CREATE will develop the knowledge, skills, and pedagogy to lead their school districts to benefit from the strengths of immigrant students who are learning English. Co-principal investigators Carhill- Poza and Gounari, along with Assistant Professor of Applied Linguistics Chris Leider , designed CREATE to recruit and train 120 teachers over the next five years. Recruitment will focus on Black, Indigenous, People of Color (BIPOC) teachers who are bilingual, and paraprofessionals who typically lack direct pathways to licensure and long-term careers in schools. The project will enable designated school districts to increase their capacity to serve multilingual students and their families. In some participating schools, English learners comprise as much as 40 percent of the student body. “CREATE is innovative and exciting,” Carhill-Poza describes, “because it empowers teachers to advocate for change within our school district partners through better understanding of the assets their multilingual immigrant students bring to learning. The expertise teachers develop from participating in the CREATE coursework, cohorts, and leadership activities will be brought into their classrooms, schools, and districts creating a ripple effect throughout communities.” Gounari explains, “Our UMass Boston team is looking to support public education in our state and serve the needs of teachers and English learners while redressing the inequities these historically marginalized students have been experiencing in their schooling. The NPD funding is a wonderful opportunity to amplify our efforts.” CREATE will also promote additive language policies for multilingual students in Massachusetts, which encourages English learning while also having mastery of their native language. “I grew up speaking Spanish at home and thrived as an English learner in school thanks to great teachers who helped me realize that my bilingualism and my biculturalism would someday be my superpower,” U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona shared when announcing the recipients of this year’s NPD grants. “As a public research university with a vibrant, multicultural educational environment and an unwavering commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, UMass Boston is honored to be awarded a National Professional Development grant from the U.S. Department of Education,” says Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco . “The funding will enable us to partner with school districts on the crucial work of creating equitable learning environments for English learners.” The public school districts participating in CREATE are Cambridge, Chelsea, Everett, Lynn, Medford, Milford, Revere, and Somerville. UMass Boston’s additional partners in this study include the Massachusetts Association of Teachers or Speakers of other Languages, the Massachusetts Association of Bilingual Educators, and the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms