This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > UGRD > edc u > edc u 370 UTeach: Perspectives on Science and Mathematics Course #: EDC U 370 Description: The Perspective on Science and Mathematics course explores a selection of topics and episodes in the history of science and mathematics. You will understand that these disciplines are not merely a body of facts, theories, and techniques. rather, they involve diverse processes by which knowledge is continually generated and reformulated.Sciences typically discussed in Perspectives include biology, physics, geology, astronomy, and chemistry. The course traces the development of key notions in these sciences and seeks to correct common myths or defective portrayals of history in science textbooks. We will also discuss the question of whether mathematics is itself a science. The course provides historical perspectives on how practical needs, social conflicts, and even individual personalities shaped the content and direction of the disciplines.An additional objective of the course is to convey that scientific and mathematical concepts are not static. The goal of the course is to promote among UTeach students the understanding that even the most basic ideas of science and mathematics are dynamic, despite the way this information is presented in K-12 textbooks. Pre Requisites: Offered in: 2024 Spring Section Class Number Schedule/Time Instructor Location 01 8221 TuTh 2:00 - 3:15 pm Crounse,Karen M W04-04-0167 UTeach meeting roo Session: Regular Class Dates: 01/22/2024 - 05/08/2024 Capacity: 20 Enrolled: 19 Status: Open Credits: 3/3 Class Notes: Pre Requisites: Course Attributes: Humanities Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000