Choose Your Cruise - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Marine Operations Choose Your Cruise Menu menu Menu Harbor Cruises Choose Your Cruise Contact Facilities Forms Getting Here Rates Services Staff Choose Your Cruise Island Adventure Explore your adventurous side on this 3-hour excursion to an island of your choice. You will be able to get off the boat and spend an hour or longer exploring one of the many beautiful Boston Harbor Islands natural wonders. Charter Details: Maximum capacity TBD Durations: 180-minute to explore your adventure Cost: $TBD group rate ( 10% discount for UMass internal groups) Departure & Return Departure at 11:00 AM from Fox Point Dock Return at 2:00 PM. Destination highlights: Spectacle Island is ideal for outdoor activities and adventure or a relaxing day by the sea. Enjoy a day of hiking and have breathtaking views from the top of North Drumlin. This Civil War-era fort is the main attraction of Georges Island and it is sure to bring out your inner history enthusiast. Peddocks Island built at the start of the 1990s, along with the restored WWII-era Chapel. It's known for its rich biodiversity and is home to Fort Andrews. Blue Atlantic Ocean rises and falls along the beaches of Lovells Island . Visitors can go for a swim and take in some of the most spectacular views of the outer harbor. Boston Inner Harbor Cruise See some of the top attractions in Boston from the waterfront on this narrated sightseeing cruise. Our most popular cruise takes you and your colleagues on a 2-hour narrated inner harbor tour culminating with a turnaround in front of the oldest commissioned naval vessel warship in the United States, the USS Constitution, or book the tour to Sunset Sightseeing Cruise. Charter Details Maximum capacity: TBD Durations : 120-minute Historic Sightseeing Cruise of Boston Harbor Cost: $TBD group rate (10% discount for Umass internal groups) Boston Harbor Light Tour Ferries running daily from Boston to Georges and Spectacle Islands. Follow this link for more information: https://www.bostonharborislands.org/#!boston-light-tours/c1dhs Science at Sea This 3-hour, hands-on science cruise will introduce you to the marine world above and below the seas. This cruise is customizable to meet your educational requirements and is appropriate for all ages, making it ideal for school field trips. Details Maximum capacity TBD Durations 180-minute ( add 1 hour by request ) Cost $TBD/3hours TPD (10% discount for Umass internal groups) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms