- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 Q&A: New Director of the Trotter Institute Brings Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Q&A: New Director of the Trotter Institute Brings Fresh Approach to Black Studies 04/10/2020 |
    Elis Mullins The University of Massachusetts Boston recently selected Quito Swan to be the new director of the William Monroe Trotter Institute for the Study of Black Culture. Swan, who joined UMass Boston this past September as a tenured full professor of Africana Studies, succeeded Barbara Lewis five months later, after she retired. Quito Swan spoke to students, faculty, and staff at a meet and greet in February. Image By: Colleen Locke “ I want people to see the Trotter as a space that brings them together. ” Here he shares why he left the tech industry to study the African diaspora, how he hopes to combine the two spheres in the Trotter, and the way he imagines the institute can engage with the community. You started with a BA in computer science. What made you want to switch to African diaspora history? I love technology, but always had a passion for history. So I went to Howard University, which has an illustrious career and tradition of producing cutting-edge research on the African diaspora. I thought there was no place better that I could study the black world. What was your research focus? I started by looking at the African diaspora in Latin America and the Caribbean. My first dissertation was on social and cultural movements in Bermuda. Later, I learned of a Bermudian environmental justice activist and pan-Africanist who traveled the world. I was fortunate to get fellowships to study his life and activism in Oceania, and that brought me into looking at the black Pacific. I'll try to bring some of that background into the Trotter: looking at not just black Boston, but also at links to the diaspora beyond Boston, beyond the Atlantic, and also the Pacific. What else are you excited to do as director of the Trotter Institute? I'm trying to make a space where we can build our archival communities in the current time. A black Bostonian project that involves all history: helping organizations archive their papers, digitizing materials, establishing collections to the Healey . Building a digital footprint, but also finding ways to engage with the community so they see UMass Boston as a physical space where conversation can happen. What would be the kind of message that you would want to send to students who have never heard of this space before? That they’re part of a broader community. That they can find support, and that there's another on-campus institution that can bring Africana alive beyond just content. I'm still trying to think of ways to make the Trotter more visible because to be honest, most of my students didn't know of the institute. But, you know, we can change that. I want people to see the Trotter as a space that brings them together. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms