Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Academic Departments Computer Science Student Resources Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Biochemistry Computer Science Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Biology Engineering Chemistry Mathematics Physics Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs Research Student Success Center Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Student Resources The Department of Computer Science at UMass Boston offers students more than just classes. Get involved with the Women in Science organization. Find out about Computer Science research groups. Careers Please use the following links to find out more about Computer Science careers. Office of Career Services and Internships Computer Science Jobs (powered by AfterCollege) Student Entrepreneurship Program (StEP) Scholarships Introduction The CSM Dean’s office is seeking applications for the AY2019-2020 College Scholarships. The Scholarships are merit-based and are awarded to different categories of students. Please review the Scholarship description and the eligibility requirements carefully. You may apply for more than one Scholarship with a single application. To be eligible, you need to be enrolled full time in Fall 2019 semester. Scholarship Description and Requirements Alton J. Brann Endowed Scholarship is awarded to outstanding students majoring in Biology, Chemistry, Biochemistry, Mathematics or Physics. Qualified applicants must have between 30-90 degree credits and high GPA. Ella Brehm Scholarship is awarded to students majoring in Biology, Chemistry, Biochemistry, Mathematics, Computer Science, Information Technology and Physics who are graduates of the Boston Public Schools (BPS) and current Massachusetts residents. Qualified applicants must have 30 credits or less and a GPA of 3.0 or above. Christine Armett-Kibel Scholarship is awarded to outstanding junior and senior students majoring in Biology, Chemistry, Biochemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Earth, Environment and Ocean Science, Computer Science, Engineering and future majors in the College of Science, and when appropriate, other fields and disciplines where the content of the student’s work is extensively and primarily involved with the natural sciences. Whereas the primary purpose of the fund is scholarship assistance, it can, under certain circumstances, provide support to enhance the student’s educational experience, such as conference fees, travel to conferences, etc. The following guidelines will apply: A) Applicants will have a minimum of 55 credits completed toward degree with at least 12 credits at the University; B) Applicants must be United States citizens; C) Applicants will be evaluated on their academic record, promise and determination, and intention to pursue a career in the Sciences; D) Students are eligible to receive the award more than once. Northrop Grumman Scholarship (formerly known as Litton) is awarded to outstanding junior or senior students majoring in Mathematics, Computer Science, Information Technology, or any physical science field (includes CSM majors in Chemistry, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Engineering Physics, and Physics). Qualified applicants must have completed at least 60 credits toward their degree and must have high GPA. Harold Weinberg Scholarship is awarded to outstanding students who demonstrate a spirit of challenge, strong sense of competition, and inspiration to team spirit. If you are interested in please visit to apply. Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms