Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Institute for New England Native American Studies Resources Menu menu Menu Institute Staff Overview Publications Presentations Resources Resources Community Health and Wellness There is a limited amount of research or scholarly publications related to the health status of Native Peoples in New England. This may be driven by this population's relatively small numbers, political status (many are not federally recognized, and therefore not eligible for Indian Health Services), and lack of political clout within the various New England states. The following resources provide data and insights into the health of New England's Native Peoples. Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Public Health Commonwealth of Massachusetts Commission on Indian Affairs : The Native American Tuition Waiver Program Guidelines as well as the Tuition Waiver Application are available on the commission website. Grandparents Raising Grandchildren Program : The program provides information and resources for Native American grandparents who take care of their grandchildren. This program is part of a collaboration with the North American Indian Center of Boston and the Institute for New England Native American Studies. For more information, visit their site or call 617.232.0343. Health Equity Scholars Program (HESP): This program is to train, support, and mentor students interested in health disparities. HESP is a project of UMass Center for Health Equity Intervention Research (CHEIR). It is supported by a collaborative partnership between UMass Medical School and UMass Boston. Funded by National Institutes of Health and National Center for Minority Health and Health Disparities. Education Here are some scholarship opportunities for Native Americans, here in Massachusetts and across the country. These are all external resources we feel hold value for Indigenous students. They are not administered by INENAS or by UMass Boston. We add links here as they come to our attention. If you have others to suggest, please email Dr. J. Cedric Woods . Scholarships for Native American and Alaskan Native Students (via EduMed ). This handy guide provides a nationwide list of scholarships (including who's eligible and application deadlines), tips on applying, and resources to support Indigenous and Alaskan Native students to thrive at college, in graduate school, and beyond. Scholarships for Native Youth in Massachusetts (via the Executive Office of Housing and Economic Development; scroll down to "Tuition and Scholarship Information") Scholarship Resource Guide for American Indian / Alaska Native Students (via North Dakota State University ) Coquille Indian Tribe Native American Higher Education Program and Information Institute for New England Native American Studies Bayside, 4th Floor 150 Mt. Vernon St. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5784 Connect Follow us on Facebook Read our blog Contact Us Cedric Woods Director Cedric.Woods@umb.edu 617.287.5784 This institute is part of the College of Education and Human Development. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms