About Us - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Student Leadership & Community Engagement About Us Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities Government Student Leadership & Community Engagement About Us Anti Racism Resources Beacon Awards Beacon Voyages For Service Black Community Engagement Series Civic Action Fellowship Community Faculty Firstyear Leadership Institute Grow Jumpstart Leadership Foundations Community Engagement Initiatives Student Testimonials StrongWomen Media Student Arts & Events Council Student Activities Welcome Week The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students About Us Leadership is an increasingly important skill needed to be successful in today’s global society. We offer several opportunities to develop and refine your leadership efficacy while making you a strong advocate for community and urban social issues. All of our programs promote and educate you on the importance of personal growth, community, and social justice. Ultimately, students learn how to create change that is responsive, reciprocal, respectful, and relevant to the needs of the urban areas of Boston and beyond. Leadership Framework We overlay the overarching framework used in our programs, the Social Change Model of Leadership Development (Astin & Astin, 1996) with Leadership for Liberation (Harper & Kezar, 2021). The Social Change Model of Leadership Development's purpose is to shape the concept of leadership as an inclusive collaborative process to affect positive social change. It is a value-based model of leadership that revolves around a core of social change through the individual, group, and societal-focused development. Our programs promote each of the 7 C’s in some way, either directly with workshops teaching the Social Change Model values or by exemplifying the values through community-engaged leadership programming. By overlaying the SCM with Leadership for Liberation we add more nuance and depth to leadership development integrating cultural commitments of Community, Empathy, Love, Inclusion, & Creativity as well as liberatory principles of Language & Logics, Training, Organizing, Strategizing, Cosmopolitanism, Identity, Consciousness, Open & Honest Deliberation, Pragmatic Utopianism, with Liberatory Values/Concepts of Liberation, Power & Oppression Acknowledgement, System Challenging, Storytelling, Support Networks, & Fellowship. SOCIAL CHANGE MODEL ASSUMPTIONS Established in 1994, the Social Change Model (SCM) of Leadership Development approaches leadership as a purposeful, collaborative, values-based process that results in positive social change.  The Model was built upon the following assumptions: Leadership is socially responsible; it impacts change on behalf of others Leadership is collaborative Leadership is a process, not a position Leadership is inclusive and accessible to all people Leadership is values-based Community involvement/service is a powerful vehicle for leadership The SCM views leadership as a purposeful, collaborative, values-driven process, instead of a title or position. Leaders commit to improving the groups or communities of which they are part. In this approach to leadership, a "leader" is anyone who wants to work with others to make a difference. This collaborative process means that groups must have trust, respect, and requires that group members act in ways that are consistent with their own beliefs and values as well as the group’s/communities goals. The team that developed the model concluded that eight values are necessary in order to have trust, common goals, and true collaboration. THE SCM 7 C'S OF LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT WITH LEADERSHIP FOR LIBERATION VALUES Individual Values : Consciousness of Self, Congruence, Commitment, Liberation, Storytelling Group Values : Controversy with Courage, Common Purpose, Collaboration, System Challenging, Power and Oppression Acknowledgement, Support Networks Community Values : Citizenship, Fellowship Vision Statement The Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement envisions a world of independent and critical thinkers who stand up for what they believe in while honoring each person in a socially-just society. Mission Statement The Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement exists to empower growth and development in students by engaging them in lifelong learning and self-discovery through community programs that promote social justice and civic leadership. Values Awareness : Encourages students to view the world through new lenses and develop values as global citizens. Community : Fosters meaningful and supportive relationships to create a non-judgmental environment where all people are assets and have common purpose. Diversity : Cultivates an inclusive environment where multiple perspectives are encouraged to broaden understanding of the world through enriching programming. Leadership : A process which students learn interpersonal and collaborative skills and strengthens natural abilities in order to lead with integrity. Social Justice : Raises awareness of existing inequalities and mobilize students to action. Source: Astin, H.S. and Astin, A.W.. A Social Change Model of Leadership Development Guidebook Version III. The National Clearinghouse of Leadership Programs, 1996. Blueprint Leadership Development Program at UC Berkeley. Harper, J., & Kezar, A. (2021). Leadership for liberation: A leadership framework and guide for student affairs professionals. USC Pullias Center for Higher Education. Meet the Staff Dr. Cheryl Price Director Lizzy Cantor Assistant Director Tiara Cobb Senior Site Manager for Jumpstart Ayana Klein Site Manager for Jumpstart Vanessa Saintvil & Carolina Bonilla Program Manager and Program Assistant, Civic Action Fellowship Abigail Raymond OSLCE Media Coordinator Xia Cheu Program Coordinator, Community Engagement Initiatives Fasha Banson, Amber Mulvey, Cristian Orellana Trip Leaders, Beacon Voyages for Service Guyrah Ismael, Khandace Wilkerson Co-Chapter Directors, Strong Women Strong Girls Chuka Nwokolo Program Coordinator, GROW Peer Facilitators Sachi Joshi & Natalia Kirilova Program Coordinators, Student Leadership Programs Gabby Alvarez & Christine Mosby Program Coordinators, Jumpstart Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement Campus Center, 2nd Floor, Suite 2300 oslce@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms