Maria.John - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Maria.John Maria John Department: History Title: Assistant Professor Location: McCormack Hall Floor 04 Phone: 617.287.6860 Send Email Biography Maria John received her PhD in History from Columbia University. Before joining the History Department at the University of Massachusetts Boston in 2017, she was an Indigenous Studies Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow in the American Studies Department at Wesleyan University from 2016-2017. Her research focuses on 20th-century Indigenous politics in the U.S. and Australia, with a focus on urban communities and health activism. Area of Expertise Comparative histories of settler colonialism, 20th-century urban Indigenous histories (especially in the U.S. and Australia), social and political histories of health and health care, histories of health activism, and histories of Indigenous sovereignty. Degrees PhD, (History) Columbia University, New York City, USA MA/MPhil (History) Columbia University, New York City, USA MA (History) Monash University, Melbourne, Australia BA (History/Politics) Monash University, Melbourne, Australia Professional Publications & Contributions Sovereign Bodies: Urban Indigenous Health Activism in the United States and Australia, 1950-2000 (In progress). “The Violence of Abandonment: Urban Indigenous Health and the Settler Colonial Politics of Non-Recognition in the United States and Australia.” NAIS: Native American and Indigenous Studies , Vol. 7, No. 1. Spring 2020. “Beyond Land: Indigenous Health and Self-Determination in an Age of Urbanization”, in Tim Rowse & Laura Rademaker (eds), Indigenous Australian self-determination: histories and historiography (Canberra: Australian National University Press, 2020). “Toypurina: A Legend Etched in the Landscape”, in East of East: The Making of Greater El Monte, 1700-2017 , edited by Romeo Guzmán, Caribbean Fragoza, Alex Sayf Cummings, and Ryan Reft, (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 2020). “Persistent Voices: A History of Indigenous People and Human Rights in Australia”, in Rajini Srikanth & Elora Halim Chowdhury (eds), Interdisciplinary Approaches to Human Rights: History, Politics, Practice (New York: Routledge Press, 2019). NYC Stands with Standing Rock Collective. 2016. “ #StandingRockSyllabus .” “Toypurina: A Legend Etched in the Landscape of Los Angeles”, History & Society , kcet.org, May 2014 Additional Information Assistant Professor John's book project, Sovereign Bodies: Urban Indigenous Health Activism in the United States and Australia, 1950-2000 , is a comparative history of urban Indigenous community-controlled health clinics in the U.S. and Australia. It considers these community-controlled health services as key activist-led responses to the settler colonial politics of non-recognition and argues that they served as foundational sites for the realization of non-territorial forms of Indigenous sovereignty. In turn, her work considers how the politics of Indigenous sovereignty has been expressed in the 20th-century through a politics of the body, and especially bodily health. At UMass Boston, Professor John serves as the director of the Native American and Indigenous Studies (NAIS) Program . NAIS offers an undergraduate interdisciplinary minor that is open to all students at UMass Boston. In her teaching for the History Department and for NAIS, Professor John offers classes on Native American and Indigenous studies, comparative settler colonialism, Native American social and political history, histories of Indigenous health, Oral History, and Native American history in the public sphere. Beyond the university, she has also been an active participant in several teaching-outreach initiatives, including her work on a 4-year project for K-12 programs and teachers coordinating a supplemental history program for middle schools across the Bronx and Manhattan in New York City; her ongoing work with a collective of scholars, artists, and activists for the East of East project of the South El Monte Arts Posse to integrate ethnic studies into middle and high schools in Southern California; and in fall 2016, her work with the NYC Stands with Standing Rock Collective , to create the #StandingwithStandingRock digital syllabus. Her research has been supported by the Mellon Foundation, the American Philosophical Society Philips Fund for Native American Research; The Teagle Foundation for Liberal Arts Education; The National Library of Australia; and the Anti-Discrimination Center, New York City. Courses Mascots, Monuments, Massacres: Native American History in the Public Sphere (HIST 185) American Indian History to 1783 (NAIS/ANTH/HIST 262) Modern American Indian Social and Political History: From the American Revolution to Standing Rock (NAIS/ANTH/HIST 263) Native American Health in Historical Perspective (HIST 386) Research Methods: Decolonizing Methodologies for Historians (HIST 600) Oral History (HIST 688) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms