Payment Information - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Bursar Payment Information Menu menu Menu Plan to Pay Financial Responsibility Agreement Tuition & Fees Payment Information Electronic Billing Online Payments Student Refunds Health Insurance Bookstore Advance Student Tax Information Forms Assistance Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Payment Information All student payments should be remitted to: University of Massachusetts Boston Bursar's Office 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3300 * Please include the student ID number on checks, money orders, bank checks and any third party payments. Bills Payments Monthly Payment Plan Wire Transfers (INTERNATIONAL PAYMENTS) Bills e-Bills are issued monthly to any student with a balance. Payment must be made by the due date on the bill to avoid late fees ( $70 late payment fee will be applied to past due invoice per school term ). Payments (The Bursar's Office will only accept checks, cashier's checks, or money orders drawn on a U.S. bank in U.S. currency, and we do not accept payment over the phone.) Payment options include check, money order, and cashier's check. Please be sure to put your student account id number on the check for proper posting. Check, money order, and cashier's check payments may be made by mail In addition to the above payment options, the University of Massachusetts Boston works with an external vendor ©Flywire, to process e-check and online credit card payments (MasterCard, VISA, Discover, or American Express cards are accepted) This service is available online 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A non-refundable convenience fee will be assessed for each credit card or debit card transaction. Go to Online Payments for details. Your bank's online bill payment service: Any automated bill payment service through your personal bank directing bank to send a check to our office should include your first and last names with the 8-digit university ID number. Allow 7 to 14 business days for delivery to the university and posted onto your WISER account. Use of personal banking "online bill payment" services may delay payment of your account and may result in late fees or enrollment consequences.  Please plan the timing of your payments accordingly. Third Party Payment For third party awards, billing and eligible tuition credits (originals only), all paperwork must be submitted to the Bursar's office by the due date of the original bill. Students may subtract the amount of their award and must pay their portion by the due date of the original bill. Late fees will be assessed if tuition credits or third party paperwork are filed late. It is the student's responsibility to communicate with their third party if payment is not received within 30 days and it is the student who will be responsible for any balance not covered by their third party. **A returned check or rejected e-check will result in a $30 fee. All payments are subject to verification, which could delay the removal of an administrative hold.  Please arrange your payment accordingly. Call the office if you have questions. Nonpayment will result in an administrative hold being placed on a student account which will prevent a student from: registering for a subsequent semester getting grades graduating Additionally, nonpayment is also subject to a $70 late payment fee per school term. Important: Bills unpaid for 3 months after the end of the semester for which they are due will be sent to collections. Accounts in collection are assessed a 25% collection fee. Monthly Payment Plan The Bursar's Office offers a monthly payment plan for current semesters through Flywire. This is an interest-free way of paying tuition in equal monthly payments with a one-time non-refundable enrollment fee per semester.  This non-refundable fee is charged by Flywire at time of enrollment. The benefits of the monthly payment plan: More time to pay. Avoid high interest rates. Create smaller, more manageable payments. Reduce the amount you need to borrow. Important notes: *Failure to enroll by the due date on the e-bill will result in a late fee and an administrative hold being placed on your WISER account. *Payments are auto-debited monthly. *Payments are due on  the 1st business day of each month. *Payments made after these dates may lead to removal from the payment plan which is subject to late payment fees and an administrative hold being placed on your WISER account. *You will not receive invoices (e-Bills). Please refer to Account Activity to view payments, remaining balance, or print Term Statement if necessary. *Third party payments cannot be used as a monthly payment while on the payment plan.  However, a third party payment would reduce your overall balance, creating a smaller monthly payment. To enroll our monthly payment plan, login to the WISER self-services account then go to "Student Financial Center" and select "Payment options" to use ©Flywire service.  Please reach out to Bursarpaymentplan@umb.edu with any questions or concerns. Wire Transfers (International Payments) (This option is not for the payment of the new student deposit, reactivation fee, or application fee. Any overpayment would result in the return of the entire transaction.) University of Massachusetts Boston has partnered with ©Flywire to provide international students with an easy and secure method to make international payments. As the leading payments processor for educational institutions all over the world, ©Flywire delivers students’ tuition payments quickly, easily, and securely. With ©Flywire you can: Track your payments from start to finish Make payments in more than 150 currencies, online and from banks worldwide Save on bank fees and exchange rates Enjoy peace of mind with dedicated 24/7 multilingual customer support Ensure accurate and timely posting of your payment to your student account To make your payment now, login to the WISER self-services account then go to "Student Financial Center" and select "Payment options" to use ©Flywire service. Use the "Make Payment" tab to put in the payment amount then click CONTINUE in order to select "INTERNATIONAL PAYMENT" . Instructional video: How to make an online payment Note: Transaction fees deducted from both the sending bank and receiving bank will affect the funds the school receives. Connect Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday: 10:00 am to 4:00 pm Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing. Telller Hours (Student Payments & Departmental Deposits) Monday – Friday: 8:30 am – 4:00 pm Internal Business for Departments Phone: Contact the Bursar Office staff directly or email BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Friday 8:30 am to 4:00 pm See Also Financial Aid & Scholarships Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms