About - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Latino Studies About Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies About Beyond The University Contact Faculty News & Events Partnerships & Community Support Research & Funding Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Minoring in Latino Studies How do I make Latino Studies part off my UMass Boston experience? A minor in Latino Studies complements any field of study by giving students an additional area of expertise. You are able to choose from courses throughout the university, many of which fulfill University Gen Ed and distribution requirements. Requirements for the Minor Minoring in Latino Studies requires 6 courses (18 credits): (3) required courses and (3) electives chosen by the student in consultation with the Latino Studies faculty advisor. In addition to the electives listed in the curriculum, students are encouraged to propose other relevant courses to be approved for their program of study. Why Should I Minor in Latino Studies? Students who minor in Latino Studies develop a complex understanding of race and racialization in the United States and the ways Latinas/os/xs forge their cultural, political, diasporic, and economic identities. Each student who minors in Latino Studies receives personalized advising that takes into consideration their academic goals, personal aspirations, and professional development. Students are required to take (3) required courses and (3) electives. In addition to courses listed as part of the program, students may request that an alternate course fulfill an elective. This flexibility allows students to design a minor in Latino Studies that compliments their major and professional goals. Students interested in minoring in Latino Studies or enrolling in individual courses should email Latino.Studies@umb.edu . Student Success Initiatives The Latino Studies Program and the Gastón Institute have partnered with various areas of the University to support the academic success of Latinx students. Programming includes workshops on various aspects of academic life such as preparing for the Writing Proficiency portfolio, supporting the transition to UMass Boston for transfer students, and mentoring students as you decide on your major and fulfill university requirements. In summer 2020 Director of CLA Advising Ana Frega, Academic Advisor and Latino Studies Steering Committee member Albis Mejía, and Professor Reyes Coll-Tellechea received funding from the Gastón Institute to develop a series of webinars for Latinx students on academic matters, financial matters, and social and emotional health. Recorded in Spanish with English subtitles, each webinar lasts approximately 25 minutes and includes student testimonials. The videos are available on the UMass Boston YouTube channel . Giving to UMass Boston Support the creation of new knowledge in Latino Studies and its benefit to Latino communities in greater Boston and New England. Give Now UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms