Edward.Carberry - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Edward.Carberry Edward Carberry Department: Management Title: Associate Professor Associate Professor of Management Location: McCormack Hall Floor 05

			 00403 Phone: 617.287.7885 Send Email Website Area of Expertise Employee ownership, organizational change, corporate governance, social movements and corporations Degrees PhD Sociology, Cornell University MA Sociology, Cornell University BA History, Bates College Professional Publications & Contributions King, Brayden G., and Edward J. Carberry. 2022. “Political Participation and the Economy.” Oxford Handbook of Political Participation. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Publishing. Carberry, Edward J. and Edward J. Zajac. 2021. “Unpacking the Dynamics of a Contested Practice: The Case of Executive Compensation and the Shareholder Value Orientation in the U.S.” Socio-Economic Review, 19(1). King, Brayden G and Edward J. Carberry. 2020. “Movements, Societal Crisis, and Organizational Theory.” Journal of Management Studies, 57(8). Carberry, Edward J., Pratyush Bharati, David L. Levy, and Abhijit Chaudury. 2019. "Social Movements as Catalysts for Corporate Social Innovation: Environmental Activism and the Adoption of Green Information Systems." Business & Society, 58(5). Carberry, Edward J., Peter-Jan Engelen, and Marc van Essen. 2018. “Which Firms Get Punished? Explaining Variation in Stock Market Reactions to Corporate Misconduct.” Business Ethics Quarterly, 28(2). King, Brayden and Edward J. Carberry. 2018. “Reversed Riches and Matthew’s Curse: The Liability of Status When Organizations Misbehave.” Journal of Management Inquiry, 27(4). Carberry, Edward J. and Joan S.M. Meyers. 2017. “Are the Best Better for Everyone? Demographic Variation in Employee Perceptions of Fairness and Camaraderie in the 100 Best Companies to Work For." Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion: An International Journal, 26(7). Van Essen, Marc, Jordan Otten, and Edward J. Carberry. 2015. “Determinants of CEO Compensation and Managerial Power Theory: A Meta-Analytic Approach.” Journal of Management, 41(1): 164-202. Caramelli, Marco and Edward J. Carberry. 2014. “Understanding Employee Preferences for Investing in Employer Stock: Evidence from France.” Human Resource Management Journal, 24(4): 548-566. Carberry, Edward J. and Brayden King. 2012. “Defensive Practice Adoption in the Face of Organizational Stigma: Impression Management and the Diffusion of Stock Option Expensing.” Journal of Management Studies, 49(7). Carberry, Edward J. 2012. “Making Sense of Organizational Environments: The Adoption of Employee Stock Options in the Indian Technology Sector.” International Journal of Human Resource Management, 23(8). Carberry, Edward J. , Editor. 2011. Employee Ownership and Shared Capitalism: New Directions and Debates. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press. Carberry, Edward J. 2011. “Employee Ownership and Shared Capitalism: Assessing the Experience, Academic Literature, and Policy Implications.” In E. Carberry (ed.) Employee Ownership and Shared Capitalism: New Directions and Debates. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press. Carberry, Edward J. 2010. “Who Benefits from Shared Capitalism? Employee Ownership and the Social Stratification of Wealth and Power.” In Richard Freeman, Douglas Kruse, and Joseph Blasi (eds.) Shared Capitalism at Work: Employee Ownership, Profit Sharing, and Broad-Based Stock Options. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. Carberry, Edward J. 2009. “Executive Stock Options after Enron: Theorizing Managerial Power within Institutional Environments.” Academy of Management Best Paper Proceedings. Lounsbury, Michael and Edward J. Carberry. 2005. “From King to Court Jester: Weber’s Fall From Grace in Organizational Theory.” Organization Studies, 26(4). Rosen, Corey and Ed Carberry. 2003. Ownership Management: Building a Culture of Lasting Innovation. Oakland, CA: National Center for Employee Ownership. Carberry, Edward J. 2000. “Employee Involvement in Companies with Broad-Based Stock Option Programs,” in S.S. Rodrick (ed.) Stock Options, Corporate Performance, and Organizational Change. Oakland, CA: National Center for Employee Ownership. Weeden, Ryan, Ed Carberry, & Scott Rodrick. 1998. Current Practices in Stock Option Plan Design. Oakland, CA: National Center for Employee Ownership. Additional Information Professor Carberry’s research focuses on understanding the causes, characteristics, and consequences of organizational change within corporations, and the broader relationships between business and society, particularly how different societal groups define and contest appropriate corporate behavior. His research has examined these dynamics in relation to employee ownership, executive compensation, corporate misconduct, and the environmental movement. His current projects focus on the effects of employee ownership on worker and firm outcomes, organizational change in employee owned companies, and impacts of social movement activism on corporations. Professor Carberry teaches MBA, PhD, and undergraduate level courses on organizational behavior, business and society, and research practice. In 2021, 2016, and 2015, he received the Betty Diener Award for Notable Achievement in Graduate Level Teaching for his teaching in the MBA program. In 2019, he won the McPherson Family Faculty Endowment award for excellence in teaching. Professor Carberry is a leading expert on employee ownership. He currently serves on the Board of Advisors for the Massachusetts Center for Employee Ownership, which is located within the Massachusetts Office of Business Development. Prior to academia, he was a project and research director at the National Center for Employee Ownership from 1994 to 2002, and served on its Board of Directors. In 2005 and 2006, he worked as a consultant with Ownership Associates, Inc., a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that provides strategic planning and organizational development services to employee owned companies. Prior to joining the faculty at the University of Massachusetts Boston in 2012, Professor Carberry was Assistant Professor of in the Department of Business-Society Management at the Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University in the Netherlands. In 2009, he was the J. Robert Beyster Visiting Professor of Employee Ownership at the School of Management and Labor Relations at Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms