Facilities & Hours - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Athletics Recreation Facilities & Hours Menu menu Menu Recreation Member Services Facilities & Hours Fitness Intramural Sports Informal Recreation Student Employment Instructional Offerings Waterfront Recreation Hours Beacon Fitness Center (Fall Hours) effective Tuesday, 9/3/24: Monday - Friday 7:00 am - 9:30 pm Saturday & Sunday 1:00 pm - 7:00 pm All Areas Closed 9/15, 10/14, 11/11, 11/27-12/1 12/19 All activities end at 5:30pm Doors lock 30 minutes prior to closing Facility Occupancy Tracker Looking to avoid the crowds? Check out the Live Facility Occupancy Tracker! Facilities Our campus offers a range of facilities designed to meet the diverse needs and interests of our students, faculty, and staff. We are dedicated to providing a vibrant and inclusive environment that promotes physical well-being, fosters sportsmanship, and encourages a balanced and active lifestyle. Beacon Fitness Center Equipped with fitness equipment from top brands like Precor and Matrix, our center caters to both beginners and seasoned fitness enthusiasts. You'll find a wide range of cardiovascular equipment, including treadmills, ellipticals, and rowing machines, alongside Paramount and Hammer strength equipment for strength training. As a member of UMass Boston's community, the Beacon Fitness Center is open to full-time and part-time students, faculty, staff, adjunct faculty, and recreation members. Enjoy the convenience of locker rooms complete with bathrooms and showers, ensuring a comfortable workout experience. Come visit the Fitness Center located on the 1st Floor of the McCormack Building. Multipurpose Studio Elevate your fitness at the Beacon Fitness Center with our diverse range of group fitness classes. From Zumba and yoga to abs workouts and Pilates, join our invigorating sessions led by experienced instructors, and experience the power of group exercise in achieving your wellness goals. Racquet Sports The Fitness Center offers one racquetball court that can be converted into a squash court as well. All racquetball participants must wear eye protection. Cycling Studio Court 2 within the Fitness Center is now home to our cycling classes. More information and classes are posted on our group fitness page. Clark Athletic Center The Center is a versatile recreation space for students at the heart of our campus. It features three basketball courts catering to various activities like volleyball and badminton. Additionally, there's an ice rink for those seeking a cool and exhilarating experience. Conveniently located next to our softball field and residence halls, the Clark Athletic Center offers something for everyone, making it the perfect place to unwind and have fun. Come join us in celebrating the spirit of recreation and community in this vibrant space! Check out the times those activities are available. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms