About The Technovator - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Technovation About The Technovator Menu menu Menu About The Technovator Completed Projects Current Projects Ipads In The Classroom Technovate With Us About The Technovator Explore Interactive Technologies at The Technovator @The Taylor Center: Location: 3rd floor, Wheatley Building, Room 133. Purpose: Collaborate with faculty, staff, and researchers to discover and potentially pilot new technologies to enhance student experiences. Process: IT professionals from Classroom Technology, Web Services, Learning Design, and more will evaluate your project. We'll assess if existing technologies can support your project or if a new pilot is feasible. Resources and Technology Available: Explore our Completed Projects catalog to see available technologies and receive expert assistance from our Innovative Specialists and Instructional Designers who are ready to help you effectively integrate these technologies. Get Support and Guidance: For personalized guidance and support, visit us in person or simply click the button below to fill out the "Technovate With Us" form. Technovate With Us About Clark Taylor The Technovator is part of UMass Boston’s Taylor Center, named for Clark Edson Taylor, a UMass Boston professor for three decades. Taylor was an emerging-technology aficionado and a true believer in experiential learning and university/community partnerships. His son, Jeff Taylor, sponsored the founding of an emerging media center on campus in honor of his father’s retirement in 2001. Clark Taylor was a leading figure in the creation of UMass Boston’s College of Public & Community Service (CPCS). CPCS was a competency-based program free of the external rewards of grades and course-credit hours. This innovative program focused on degrees for non-traditional students. Most CPCS students were adults returning to college to earn or complete their degrees and were afforded the option to move at their own pace. Clark continued this work until his retirement in 2001. The programs of this innovative school are now housed in schools and centers across the University. Originally from Naperville, Illinois, Clark Taylor graduated DePauw University with a degree in history and philosophy. He played football and was a trombone player in the marching band during both his high school and college years. Clark attended the Evangelical Theological Seminary and became the director of urban work for the Council of Churches, where he was involved with the racial integration of schools and the integration of the building trades. Clark earned a master’s degree in urban and regional planning and a PhD at Rutgers University before joining the faculty at UMass Boston. An intellectual and social activist, Clark was the board chair for Grassroots International, and chaired the Social Action Committee and the Immigration Task Force at the First Parish Unitarian Universalist Church in Needham. Clark and his wife Kay, married 64 years, created and led, for two decades, a partnership between the Congregational Church of Needham and the village of Santa Maria Tzeja in Guatemala, providing educational, housing, and clean water support. Clark wrote two books regarding his experiences in Guatemala and Central America. The Technovator reflects Clark’s philosophy, “Technology, in all its forms, is an important enabler to greater enjoyment on life’s journey.” Technovator @ The Taylor Center, UMass Boston 3rd Floor of Wheatley, Room 133 technovation@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms