Facts - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Institutional Research, Assessment & Planning Facts Menu menu Menu About Dashboards Facts Common Data Set Peer Institutions and Urban Coalitions Statistical Portraits Admissions Statistical Portraits Enrollment Statistical Portraits Faculty Staff Statistical Portraits Retention and Graduation Umass Annual Indicators Student Profiles Umass Boston at a Glance Reports Facts Our primary responsibility is to report official campus statistics on students, faculty, and staff based on census data, i.e., data extracted from the student information system on one particular day, usually after the end of add/drop deadline. The end of term census is created after the semester ends. The staff and faculty census is usually created in mid-October and March. We have a number of recurring reports, including: Fast Facts : Fast Facts reports the most commonly requested statistics about UMass Boston enrollment, degrees, and faculty. This is a yearly report based on fall statistics. Who Are Our Students? : Another yearly publication based on fall statistics that highlight the characteristics of our incoming students. Common Data Set: “The Common Data Set (CDS) initiative is a collaborative effort among data providers in the higher education community and publishers as represented by the College Board, Peterson's, and U.S. News & World Report. The combined goal of this collaboration is to improve the quality and accuracy of information provided to all involved in a student's transition into higher education, as well as to reduce the reporting burden on data providers.”—CDS Initiative Statistical Portrait: Statistical portrait is a collection of data tables published every fall. These tables present a wide range of campus statistics, from admission trend to SAT scores to graduation rates. Most of these tables present the past five year’s data. UMass Annual Indicator and Student Profiles : These yearly reports are published by the UMass Office of the President. Office of Institutional Research, Assessment, and Planning Quinn Administration Building, 3rd Floor, Room 13 617.287.5420 inst.research@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms