Research Policies A to Z - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Research Policies Research Policies A to Z Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Research Policies A to Z Research Policies by Topic Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Research Policies A to Z Additional Compensation Note Click here to download the related file. Additional Compensation Policy Click here to download the related file. Advance Accounts Click here to download the related file. Authorized Signature Sponsored Awards Authorized Signature Policy Budgeting Salaries and Benefits Click here to download the related file. Consulting Agreement Provisions Click here to download the related file. Core Facilities Click here to download the related file. Cost Sharing Click here to download the related file. Cost Transfer Policy & Procedures Cost Transfer Policy & Procedures Course Buy Out Policy Click here to download the related file. Deficits Procedure Write-Offs on Sponsored Awards Click here to download the related file. Distributed Research Administration Click here to download the related file. Drug-Free Workplace Act Annual Certification Click here to download the related file. Effort Reporting UMB Effort Certification Process Equipment Fabrication Click here to download the related file. Excess Cash Procedure Refunds & Residuals on Sponsored Awards Click here to download the related file. Export Control Click here to download the related file. Faculty Consulting and Outside Activities Click here to download the related file. FFATA Policy Click here to download the related file. FFATA Procedure Click here to download the related file. Financial Conflict of Interest Click here to download the related file. Gift Card Request Process Click here Grants vs. Gifts Click here to download the related file. IACUC- Animal Research Click here to download the related file. Indirect Rate Policy for grant and contract proposals to external sponsors Indirect Rate Policy for External Sponsors Indirect waivers should be completed from within Kuali Proposal Development whenever possible. In the event your proposal has been Approved and Submitted you may use the form linked here . Intellectual Property Click here to download the related file. IRB- Human Research Protection Program (HRPP) Plan Click here IRB- Investigator Manual Click here IRB- Memorandum from Provost (Research with Human Subjects) Click here to download the related file. Malign Foreign Government Talent Recruitment Programs (MFTRPs) Malign Foreign Government Talent Recruitment Programs Participant Support Costs Participant Support Policy & Procedures Rebudgeting Policy & Procedures for Sponsored Programs Rebudgeting Policy for Sponsored Programs Research Misconduct Click here to download the related file. Research Professorships Click here to download the related file. Responsible Conduct of Research and Scholarly Activities Click here to download the related file. Roles and Responsibilities Click here Signatory Authority for Sponsored Programs Click here to download the related file. Small Business Development Click here to download the related file. Sponsored Programs Click here to download the related file. Sponsored Expenditures Guidance Sponsored Expenditures Guidance Sponsored Research and Assignment of Shared Credit Click here to download the related file. Sponsored Student Payment & Policy Procedures Sponsored Student Payment & Policy Procedures Subrecipient Monitoring Policy Click here to download the related file. Subrecipient Monitoring Procedure Subrecipient Monitoring Procedure Summer Salary Supported by Sponsored Programs Click here to download the related file. Unallowable Costs Click here to download the related file. University Resources in Support of Entrepreneurial Activities Click here to download the related file. Unrelated Business Income Tax Click here to download the related file. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms