Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Education Academic Departments Counseling & School Psychology Student Resources Menu menu Menu Research & Engagement Academic Departments Counseling & School Psychology Faculty & Staff Student Resources Curriculum & Instruction Leadership in Education School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Student Success Scholarships & Financial Support Alumni Spotlight Faculty & Staff Dean's Office Student Resources University Policies & Regulations Familiarize yourself with University Policies and Regulations and the Code of Student Conduct . Office of Career Services The Office of Career Services is designed to help you explore career possibilities, investigate employment trends, and consider graduate school options. Their staff can provide individual advising and workshops on job search strategies, resume writing, and interviewing. Their online career database, Handshake , provides UMass Boston students and alumni access to job postings, career event details, on-campus recruitment activities, and the bi-weekly Job Bulletin. In addition, the Career Resource Library offers many helpful publications related to careers and graduate study. This library is open Monday thru Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., and can be used on a walk-in basis. Why Counseling and School Psychology The faculty of UMass Boston's Counseling and School Psychology Department are world-renowned psychologists and counselor educators, who impact national and global policy on mental health, schools, and activism … and who love to teach! We train clinicians, counselors, and leaders from a unique social justice perspective that emphasizes work to fight oppression, combats stigma surrounding mental health concerns, and addresses institutional barriers to healthy human development in diverse populations. How We Teach Our training is both academic and applied. We teach skills, but all of our programs prepare students to conceptualize the whole person in socio-cultural-developmental, family, and multicultural contexts. Students receive a strong foundation in traditional theories and practice while learning to consider their limitations and use new knowledge and counseling skills to enhance the empowerment and strengths of those they serve. What We Focus On We are both competency-based and evidence-based, with an eye toward original and creative responses to how and why competencies are important for whom, and what evidence is necessary to work toward each goal. Student learning prioritizes a social justice perspective and a focus on diverse populations from childhood through adulthood, in schools, communities, mental health and counseling centers, agencies, and hospitals. Our graduates succeed in obtaining the careers they desire, whether in an agency, school or at a university, and in changing the world for the people they serve. Contact Us Department of Counseling and School Psychology University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Admission and Practicum Inquiries Emily Strojny, MEd, LMHC, Admissions and Practicum Coordinator Email: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.5835 Department of Counseling and School Psychology 617.287.5835 csp.admissions@umb.edu 617-287-7667 Disclosure of Professional Licensure or Certification Information: School Psychology, Ph.D. The U.S. Department of Education requires institutions to identify the states for which the institution has made a determination of whether a program’s curriculum meets the state educational requirements for licensure or certification in the states where students are located and provide notification of the outcome of these determinations. This requirement applies to educational programs that are designed to meet educational requirements for a specific professional licensure or certification that is required by a state for employment in an occupation. The U.S. Department of Education does not require an institution to make an independent determination about whether a program it offers meets the licensure or certification requirements in a particular state. The University of Massachusetts Boston has conducted an independent determination of the requirements for some states as noted below as of July 1, 2020. However, state requirements are subject to change and to interpretation by state regulators. In addition, state licensure boards and agencies may require applicants to meet additional requirements beyond completion of an educational program in order to obtain professional licensure or certification including, for example, passing licensure examinations, successfully completing background checks, and complying with other application and eligibility requirements. Students should contact the state licensure board or agency in the state in which they intend to work in order to learn more about the requirements for professional licensure and certification in the state before beginning a program at the University. The school psychology program is accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA): Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation American Psychological Association 750 First Street NE Washington, DC 20002-4242 Phone: 202-336-5979 TDD/TTY: 202-336-6123 Web: www.apa.org/ed/accreditation Email: apaaccred@apa.org School Psychology, Ph.D. The University has determined that the program’s curriculum meets the state, district, or territory educational requirements for licensure or certification that is required for employment as a licensed psychologist in: Alabama - AL Alaska - AK Arizona - AZ Arkansas - AR Colorado - CO Connecticut - CT Delaware - DE Florida - FL Georgia - GA Hawaii - HI Idaho - ID Illinois - IL Indiana - IN Iowa - IA Kansas - KS Kentucky - KY Louisiana - LA Maine - ME Maryland - MD Massachusetts - MA Michigan - MI Minnesota - MN Mississippi - MS Missouri - MO Montana - MT Nebraska - NE Nevada - NV New Hampshire - NH New Jersey - NJ New Mexico - NM New York - NY North Carolina - NC North Dakota - ND Ohio - OH Oklahoma - OK Oregon - OR Pennsylvania - PA Puerto Rico - PR Rhode Island - RI South Carolina - SC South Dakota - SD Tennessee - TN Texas - TX Utah - UT Vermont - VT Virgin Islands - VI Virginia - VA Washington - WA Washington, D.C. - DC West Virginia - WV Wisconsin - WI Wyoming - WY The University has determined that the program’s curriculum does not meet the state, district, or territory educational requirements for licensure or certification that is required for employment as a licensed psychologist in: California - CA The University has not made a determination whether the program’s curriculum meets any applicable state educational requirements for licensure or certification that might be required for employment as a licensed psychologist: None at this time UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms