This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > UGRD > usea > usea 106 Underwater Research Methods Using SCUBA Course #: USEA 106 Description: This course is designed to introduce SCUBA certified students to underwater research methods used primarily in the study of the biology, ecology and the physiology of subtidal organisms. Methods that apply to natural and cultural resource fieldwork are covered in lecture & readings. Students will be trained in conducting Subtidal research with safety as a priority and will include diving emergency management per AAUS requirements under DAN (Divers Alert Network). A variety of current underwater research methods are taught and practiced in both the classroom and with regular underwater field exercises. Topics include: census methods & habitat surveys for subtidal research; sampling design & statistical analysis; underwater photography & video as research tool; diving emergency management including CPR & First Aid, AED use & Oxygen Administration and Diver rescue training; diving physics, physiology, decompression theory, & dive computers; diving safety, planning & logistics, fill station use, and SCUBA cylinder use & care. Notes: This course fulfills the American Academy of Underwater Sciences (AAUS) scientific diver training requirements. Pre Requisites: Offered in: TBA Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000