Education - Early Childhood MEd - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Education - Early Childhood MEd Home Academics Majors & Programs Education - Early Childhood MEd Request Info Loading... Prepare to be a leader in early childhood settings from the classroom to the policy world. Graduates of the Early Childhood MEd have a working knowledge of the dimensions of typical and atypical child growth and learning (language development, cognition, approaches to learning, social and emotional development, and physical and motor development); skills in assessment, curriculum development and implementation, and ethics and professionalism. Graduates are able to create and/or modify environments, curriculum, and individualized and family development plans to ensure access and involvement by all children and their families in educational settings. UMass Boston's Early Childhood Master’s Program, housed within a public urban university, is dedicated to the training of educators who are prepared to teach individuals from various diverse backgrounds in school and early childhood settings Choose Your Track The Early Childhood (ECHD) program offers two separate Master’s programs: Initial Licensure Pre-K-2 and Non-Licensure/Community Professional. The Initial Licensure program is a 37-credit program that consists of 13 required courses leading to public school licensure. The 13-course sequence includes a 1-credit pre-practicum and a 6-credit full-time practicum. Students take 2-3 courses a semester and complete their pre-practicum in their penultimate semester and their practicum in their final semester. This program takes 2-3 years to complete depending on how many courses students complete each semester. The Early Childhood Non-Licensure/Community Professional program is a 36-credit program that prepares students for work in a broad range of early childhood settings as an educator, policy worker, non-profit professional, or leader. This program consists of 12 courses including core classes and electives. This program takes 2-3 years to complete depending on how many courses students complete each semester. Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Test Scores: Test optional (not required for admission or graduation) Letters of Recommendation: 2 Writing Sample: Optional Other: Statement of purpose, transcripts, résumé Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: April 1 for summer, July 1 for fall, December 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Initial Licensure Track Required Courses (31 Credits) ECHD 601 - Foundational Understandings of Early Childhood/Early Intervention and Special Education 3 Credit(s) ECHD 611 - Development and Characteristics of All Young Learners Including Those with Special Needs. 3 Credit(s) ECHD 621 - Creating Effective Learning Environments and Fostering Positive Social Interactions 3 Credit(s) ECHD 622 - Observing, Documenting and Assessing in Early Childhood/Early Intervention 3 Credit(s) ECHD 640 - Language Development and Literacy in Early Childhood/Early Intervention 3 Credit(s) ECHD 641 - Science and Mathematics Instruction for All Young Children 3 Credit(s) ECHD 689 - Early Childhood Pre-Practicum PreK-2 1 Credit(s) ECHD 690 - Planning Curriculum in Early Childhood 3 Credit(s) EDC G 606 - Sociocultural Foundations of Education 3 Credit(s) EDC G 646 - Understanding Reading: Principles and Practices 3 Credit(s) EDC G 650 - Rethinking Equity and Teaching for English Language Learners 3 Credit(s) Practicum Course (6 Credits) ECHD 685 - Practicum II-PreK-2nd grade 6 Credit(s) Non-Licensure Track Required Courses (30 Credits) ECHD 601 - Foundational Understandings of Early Childhood/Early Intervention and Special Education 3 Credit(s) ECHD 611 - Development and Characteristics of All Young Learners Including Those with Special Needs. 3 Credit(s) ECHD 621 - Creating Effective Learning Environments and Fostering Positive Social Interactions 3 Credit(s) ECHD 622 - Observing, Documenting and Assessing in Early Childhood/Early Intervention 3 Credit(s) ECHD 640 - Language Development and Literacy in Early Childhood/Early Intervention 3 Credit(s) ECHD 641 - Science and Mathematics Instruction for All Young Children 3 Credit(s) ECHD 690 - Planning Curriculum in Early Childhood 3 Credit(s) EDC G 606 - Sociocultural Foundations of Education 3 Credit(s) EDC G 630 - Inclusion PreK-12:Diversity and Equity in Inclusive Settings 3 Credit(s) EDC G 646 - Understanding Reading: Principles and Practices 3 Credit(s) Electives (6 Credits) Complete two courses from an area of interest in early childhood education, special education or sheltered English immersion. Courses must be approved by the graduate program director. Graduation Criteria Initial Licensure Track Complete 37 credits from 13 courses including twelve required courses, and one practicum course. Capstone: Completion of a portfolio as part of EDC G 690. Practicum: Students wishing to do any form of supervised practicum must apply for approval and placement the semester prior to the one in which the practicum is to take place (spring applications are due in October and fall applications are due in March). Policies and applications are available from the Office of Teacher Education. All candidates for initial licensure are required to take the full 6-credit practicum. A full practicum lasts 14 weeks (one full semester) and consists of a minimum of 300 hours of supervised student teaching. The practicum is split into two sets of hours and settings: 100 hours of the practicum must be completed in a Pre-K or K classroom 200 hours of the practicum must be completed in a 1st or 2nd grade classroom. Please note: all candidates are required to complete the above hours. Current teachers of record and paraprofessionals must still meet the hour and setting requirements. There are no exceptions or waivers for the Early Childhood practicum. Exams: Take Foundations of Reading MTEL after completing EDC G 646. The Early Childhood MTEL is also required and should be taken as soon as possible. All MTELs must be passed prior to taking ECHD 685 - Practicum II-PreK-2nd grade. GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 must be maintained throughout the program. Statute of limitations: Five years. Non-Licensure Track Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including ten required courses and two electives. Capstone: Complete a capstone project. GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 must be maintained throughout the program. Statute of limitations: Five years. Contact Graduate Program Director Serra Acar serra.acar [at] umb.edu Curriculum & Instruction Learn more about UMass Boston's Curriculum & Instruction department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Curriculum & Instruction College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms