Game Room - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Campus Center Home Campus Center Students Game Room Menu menu Menu Contact Services Students Game Room Involvement Opportunities Student Resources Work In Center The Wave | Game Room Featuring video games, pool tables, and board games, the Game Room is the perfect spot to take a break between classes or to kick back and watch the game on the big screen. The game room is located on the upper level of the Campus Center, just past One Stop on the left (before the parking garage, next to the vending machines). Recognized student organizations and university departments can rent the Game Room for special events. For more information about the space rental, please review our policy. Are food and drinks allowed in the Game Room? Food and open drink containers are not allowed in the Game Room. Beverage containers that can be sealed are permitted. Can I move the furniture? Feel free to move any of the chairs and ottomans. Please do not move the couches or tables. Thank you! May I bring my own gaming console? Yes, you may use your own console at your own risk. Game Room staff and the Campus Center department are not responsible for items not provided by the University or left unattended. Can I play a movie on the big TV? The cable TV is available for students to use and enjoy. Unfortunately due to copy right laws, the University does not allow students to play DVDs. Can I leave my stuff with the Game Room Assistant? No, the staff cannot hold your personal items. I left something behind, where I can find it? Items left behind may be turned into the Campus Center's Lost & Found. Read more about I left something behind, where I can find it?  » I want to play a game but someone is hogging the equipment... what can I do? Please see the Game Room Assistant. They will be happy to help. My phone is locked in the charging station, how do I get it out? Please inform the Game Room Assistant. They can call the Building Manager on Duty to unlock the charging station. My student ID doesn't scan correctly... what should I do? Head over to the One Stop for assistance. Read more about My student ID doesn't scan correctly... what should I do?  » May I bring my child into the Game Room? Yes, this is a family friendly environment. Children must be accompanied by an adult and they cannot be left unattended. Can you rent the Game Room for a special event? Yes, recognized student organizations and university departments can rent the Game Room for special events. Read more about Can you rent the Game Room for a special event?  » UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms