Microcredentials - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Microcredentials Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Planning Development Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools UMass Boston Microcredentialing Initiative Our university is in the process of developing a campus-wide microcredentialing initiative. We are piloting the Canvas LMS and the Canvas Credentials system with a limited number of courses. We invite proposals for microcredentialing programs to help learn from the pilot and to grow the initiative. Microcredential Planning Guide Microcredential Development Guide What are Microcredentials? Microcredentials are competency-based, short and flexible programs of study designed to develop specific demonstrated skills. Microcredentials can be in the form of a course, a series of courses, or a professional training program. Microcredentials can be academic for-credit, academic non-credit and non-academic/professional development programs. What are digital badges? Microcredentials are associated with digital badges which are digital image “emblems” used to represent the earned microcredentials. The digital credential frameworks make it possible to associate the digital badge with important meta-data that is used to track the evidence of learning and to verify the earned microcredential. Learners can also collect and share digital badges using a credentialing platform such as Canvas Credentials. Microcredentials at UMass Boston At the direction of the Office of the Provost, a Microcredentialing Task Force has been assembled with members form various campus offices who are working on defining the scope of the initiative and devising the necessary support systems for a successful campus-wide initiative. The Benefits of Microcredentialing Microcredentials are a useful way to expand the offerings within an institution with short and flexible learning programs that are focused on the demands of the times. This helps learners equip themselves with skills that directly relate to industry needs. Microcredentials help prepare students to enter the workforce, and they help existing workers build new skills quickly. Career-readiness skills The National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) has identified eight key competencies that college students should possess in order to be competitive candidates in the internship and job markets and to be a successful employee in the workplace. Microcredentialing is a good way to help students build these skills and showcase the skills when they are earned. Microcredential Planning Guide Microcredential Development Guide Canvas Credentials Visit the UMass Boston Canvas Credential page to view current microcredentials. Questions? Reach out to Tina.chang@umb.edu or rrezarta.agimi@umb.edu Earn a Microcredential Enroll in the Teaching and Learning Online course on Canvas to learn about teaching online and earn the first microcredential on the UMass Boston Canvas Credentials system. Enroll in the TLO Now UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms