Campus Center - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Campus Center Home Campus Center Menu menu Menu Contact Services Students Campus Center Welcome to the Campus Center, the heart of the university, welcoming students, faculty, staff, and visitors into a vibrant community of learners. As the gateway to academic life, it embodies the university’s mission and founding principles of access, diversity, and excellence. More than just a building, the Campus Center acts as the "living room" of the university, uniting student services, student life, and shared spaces that encourage community engagement. It supports key areas such as Student Life & Student Involvement , University Resources & Services , and Event & Conference Services . Inside, you'll find cozy study spots, a variety of dining options, essential academic and student resources, and a range of activities and events to enjoy. Student Life & Involvement Opportunities to explore, get involved and have fun! Event Services Explore our meeting and event spaces or book your next event. Student Resources Take care of business in a convenient, efficient and friendly environment. Let's Eat Where to grab a bite to eat in the Campus Center. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms