Boston Marathon Team - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Development & Education Camp Shriver & Community Programs Boston Marathon Team Menu menu Menu People Research & Evaluation Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Impact Report, Mission, Model & Evaluation Summer Stars Saturday Camp Staff and Volunteers Boston Marathon Team TCS New York City Marathon Team International Marathons and Premier Race Events Thrive for Shriver Challenge Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner Media Packet And Publications Best Practices for Inclusive Camps Center Academics Boston Marathon Team Announcements Applications for our 2025 Boston Marathon will open in in the Fall. To be notified when our applications for our 2025 Boston Marathon are available, add your name to our inquiry list. Camp Shriver is thrilled to be a member of the Official Charity Program of the 128th Boston Marathon® presented by Bank of America, working together with the B.A.A. to promote a healthy lifestyle for children in Boston. Camp Shriver will host a team of 10 runners for the Boston Marathon, who together will raise over $100,000 to support Camp Shriver programming, including our inclusive summer camp for children with and without disabilities and school-year Saturday Camp. Camp Shriver and the B.A.A. work together to promote a healthy lifestyle for children throughout the year, offering running clinics to Camp Shriver campers and recruiting children from Boston, with and without disabilities, to participate in B.A.A. youth programming. It is Camp Shriver's 12th year as an Official Charity of the Boston Marathon. Applicants may wish to contact Barbara.Gildea@umb.edu for a sample fundraising plan to attach to their application. Members of Team Camp Shriver will raise a minimum of $8,000 to help low-income children with and without disabilities participate in an inclusive summer sports program. Together, we will ensure that all children, with and without disabilities, have an opportunity to learn, grow and have fun as equals. A committee will review all applications and will be looking for 1) commitment to Camp Shriver and/or the mission of Camp Shriver, 2) fundraising pledge and ability to achieve fundraising pledge, and 3) ability to train for and complete a marathon. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis Team Camp Shriver will receive access to (if current state Covid guidelines permit): a comprehensive marathon training program with the support of professional running coaches in partnership with several other Boston Marathon charities - the Marathon Coalition, sponsored weekly training runs along the marathon route, including coaching support and water stops, a supported 21-mile long run along the Boston Marathon course, kick-off event in November, post-marathon party at the Westin Copely hotel near the finish line, fundraising support, including one-on-one phone calls / meetings with a development professional, personalized thank you notes to all donors, Boston Marathon Official Charity Team Camp Shriver running gear, and additional team meetings and events to be announced! We encourage you to find out more about Camp Shriver by watching our video and visiting our Facebook page . To stay in touch with Camp Shriver, sign up for the Camp Shriver seasonal newsletter. If you have any questions about the process, or have already qualified for the 2023 Boston Marathon and would like to run with Team Camp Shriver, please contact: Barbara Gildea, Director of Development, by email or at 617.287.7250. If you are interested in volunteering to be part of the Team Camp Shriver Support Squad to cheer on our runners and staff a water stop during the  Boston Marathon and for two training runs, contact Barbara Gildea by email or at 617.287.7250. Center for Social Development and Education 10th Floor, Healey Library, 100 Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.7250 Connect Like Camp Shriver on Facebook Sign up for Camp Shriver's seasonal newsletter UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms