Reservation & Space Use Policies - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Event Services Reservation & Space Use Policies Menu menu Menu Our Office Our Event Venues Our Services For External Clients & Conferences For Departments For Student Organizations Reservation & Space Use Policies Reserving Space Space Use & Reservation Policies The following policies govern both formal and informal use of space at UMass Boston. These guidelines apply to all buildings, spaces, and facilities, and exclude private and department managed spaces. Review the more commonly referenced space, scheduling and event policies provided below or download the full University Space Use Policy . Location Policies Academic Spaces - Events in Classrooms Academic classes have priority over all other uses in classrooms and auditoriums. Outside of instruction, these spaces can be used for meetings, lectures, and other events. The Event Services team schedules classrooms for all non-class related bookings. Classrooms and auditoriums are opened for non-class related bookings according to the following schedule: » April 15 | For fall semester requests » November 15 | For January and spring semester requests » February 15 | For summer session requests » Requests for classrooms/auditoriums are not accepted during the course registration add/drop period at the beginning of each semester. » Classrooms/auditoriums are not available during exam periods. » Classroom furniture cannot be rearranged, added, or removed. » Food and beverages are not permitted in auditoriums. » The final ten minutes of a reservation period must be used to clean up and vacate the space. Any food/leftovers must be removed from the room and disposed of in public area trash receptacles. » AV Services and Classroom Technology provides technology support in classrooms/auditoriums. They must be contacted in advance for support of meetings and events in academic spaces. Amplified Sound (Music, Microphones, etc.) Outdoor Spaces University policy permits the use of amplified sound during outdoor events with advanced notice and an approved outdoor event reservation. Additionally, to prevent disruption to instructional activities and campus neighbors, sound levels must not exceed 70 decibels between the hours of 7 a.m. and 11 p.m., or 50 decibels between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. Indoor Spaces Sound level readings will be taken by the Event Services office at the perimeter of the reserved area, or 100' from the amplification device. Event organizers will be given one opportunity to lower and keep the sound below this level. A second infraction will result in an event’s immediate termination and dispersal. Event Services and the UMass Boston Department of Public Safety & Police department may request volume adjustments or relocate speakers. Amplified sound in open spaces is limited to avoid disruption to classes and essential operations. During regular business hours and while classes are in session, amplified sound is permitted within enclosed spaces only (ballroom, food court, conference rooms). Exceptions may be granted with advance notice during the hours below. Event Services may deny the use of amplified sound if sufficient advanced notice is not provided. Campus Center Weekdays:   11:00 a.m.–2:00 p.m., or after 5 p.m. Weekends:   All day Only the Event Services in-house AV equipment may be used during the times listed above. DJ/Musician/external sound equipment is limited to Wednesday and Thursday from 12 to 1 p.m. or on weekends. Integrated Science Complex Weekdays:  11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m., or after 5 p.m. Weekends:  All day The video walls/microphones in the first and third floor atriums can be used during the times listed above. Events with music are limited to weekdays after 5 p.m. or on weekends. University Hall Weekdays:  Prohibited Weekends:  After last scheduled class Review additional information in the Space Use Policy Location Request vs. Assignment Requests for a specific room or location will be taken into consideration; however, locations are scheduled based on priority, the needs of the event, and the most efficient use of space. Event Services reserves the right to reassign space with appropriate notice, signage, and price changes. Rain/Snow Locations Unfortunately, we do not have sufficient space on campus to provide same-day rain locations for outdoor events. We can provide a "rain date" no less than three weeks after the original event date. Please plan accordingly. Severe weather or other states of emergency may require the shutdown of the university campus. If the university is closed due to severe weather, snow, or other inclement weather, all UMass Boston events may be canceled. University event staff monitor weather conditions routinely and will contact event sponsors if there is cause. If cancellation is by the university or the requestor due to inclement weather or other emergency conditions, an alternate date can be arranged based upon availability. Additional information in the Space Use Policy Weekly Meetings and Block Space Holds Meeting space is in high demand and space is available for the entire university community to share. A reservation request may be denied if it monopolizes the same space on the same day each week, consecutive days, or for extended periods of time. Event Services may deny any reservation request for a large block of space(s) on consecutive or ad-hoc dates, unless part of a single conference or event. Timeline Booking Deadlines The reservation system allows requests to be submitted up to 365 days in advance. Requests that may require setup, equipment, or staffing must be received at least seven days (or five business days) prior to the reservation date. The seven day deadline provides sufficient time to coordinate staffing schedules, equipment assignments, and guarantee all event logistics. Last-minute requests must be limited to a preset/fixed space and should be requested by calling the Event Services office directly. Instructions on how to submit space requests in 25Live Reservation Confirmation Typical turn-around time on reservation requests is 3 to 5 business days. Responses may take longer at peak times of the year (e.g. first and last weeks of the semester). All space requests should be considered tentative until you receive an email confirmation from the Event Services office. Additional information on reserving space in 25Live. Reservation Changes, Additions, Cancellations To allow for planning, staffing, equipment availability, and proper setup, all changes/cancellations must be received five days before the reservation date. To change or cancel an event scheduled by the Event Services office, please send us an email with your reservation reference (e.g. 2020-ABCDEF) and details of the change or cancellation. Read more about Reservation Changes, Additions, Cancellations  » Food and Beverage Serving Food - Exclusive Caterer UMass Boston Catering and Dining Services is the preferred food and beverage vendor on university property. The requirement that UMass Boston Catering provide all food services on campus reduces risk, makes certain that food and beverage service meets University standards, and provides our community with the following assurances: » All food service personnel are vaccinated in compliance with UMass Boston vendor vaccination requirements; » Food is transported, stored, prepared, and served under the guidance of licensed, insured, code-compliant vendors; » Faculty, staff, students, and guests are shielded from foodborne illness; » Food and beverage service meets university standards for sustainability; » Upholds UMass Boston’s commitment to vendors that provide full benefits and a living wage to their employees. Read more about Serving Food - Exclusive Caterer  » Non-Catered Services Delivery and carry-in options are permitted for small meetings and office gatherings of no more than twenty-five people. These may include pizza delivery, grocery/deli trays, bakery refreshments, or a small food order that is picked-up, transported and setup by the event organizer. These are considered low-risk food services. For food safety and liability reasons, home prepared food may not be offered at events. Read more about Non-Catered Services  » Serving Alcohol - Caterer Alcohol must be purchased and served by our exclusive on-campus caterer. UMass Boston Catering will apply for and secure a Special One-Day Liquor License from the City of Boston at least 4 weeks before the event. City of Boston One-Day Alcohol License Requirements for Caterer Serving Alcohol - Campus Approval Steps for Event Host The department hosting the event must receive approval from the University by submitting the Request to Serve/Sell Alcohol form at least 4 weeks before the event. Read more about Serving Alcohol - Campus Approval  » Other Considerations ADA Accommodations The University of Massachusetts Boston is committed to the full inclusion of individuals with disabilities and continually improving the accessibility of our campus, programs and activities. UMass Boston requires that events hosted on campus are in full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act as amended in 2008. If you are coordinating an event on campus, and have questions about ADA compliance or have received accommodation requests from your guests, please contact UMass Boston Event Services at least three weeks prior to your event so that we have time to discuss and plan for your needs. Read more about ADA Accommodations  » Event Staff Fees Your event may require campus staff to work outside of regular business hours (Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) to setup or support your event. In these instances, the department hosting the event is responsible for covering the hourly rate of the staff. Overtime staff assignments are indicated on your Event Confirmation (sent to your university email address and viewable online in your 25Live account). When applicable, the department speedtype provided with your reservation request will be charged automatically after the event. Please be aware, there is a four hour minimum charge per staff assigned. As outlined in the collective bargaining agreement, a meal stipend may be charged to your department’s account in addition to the hourly rate. Overtime Staff Roles: » SETUP CREW | Prepares spaces according to the instructions listed on the Event Confirmation. This includes but is not limited to setting up chairs, tables, stages, etc. » EVENT MAINTAINER | Assigned to events taking place in the evening or on weekends when the guest count exceeds 125 attendees. Maintainers may be utilized if additional resources including tables and chairs are needed. They also assist with general trash removal and facility related issues. A Maintainer will be assigned 30 minutes before and after your scheduled event times. Follow the "read more" link to open the collective bargaining agreement. Read more about Event Staff Fees  » Protests and Demonstrations Review the Protest and Demonstration Policy in the University Space Use Policy (section XI) Protest Demonstration Advanced Notification Form UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms