Pre Health Student Organizations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Student Success Center Pre Med Pre Health Student Organizations Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Research Student Success Center Math Placement Academic Support Degree Planning Meet With Your Advisor Faculty Resources First Year STEM Communities Pre Med MCAT Preparation Pre Health Student Organizations Premedical Enrichment Programs Premedical Volunteer Opportunities Career & Research Opportunities Purposeful Pathways Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy PreHealth Student Organizations How to get involved As a student interested in a health care field it is important and a benefit to get involved in extracurriculars. We encourage you to consider volunteer opportunities as well as getting involved on UMass Boston's campus. There are many student run organizations that are Pre-Health focused. Please see below for what established groups are on campus for you to join. Phi Delta Epsilon All members must be pre-med students here and intend to apply to medical schools upon graduation. Phi Delta Epsilon is the largest and oldest medical fraternity in the world with members on countless medical school admissions boards. In addition to offering pre-med students resources to help with the difficult medical path, it will offer students the chance to help out in the community as well. Read more about Phi Delta Epsilon  » Pre-Dental Society The PDS consists of students who are interested in pursuing a career in Dentistry. Dental medicine is a fantastic and diverse field with incredible opportunities, but getting there is challenging and requires a lot of dedication and hard work. The purpose of the UMass Boston Pre-Dental Society (PDS) is to provide a forum to serve the special needs of UMass Pre-Dental students, or students who are or may be interested in the dental profession. The PDS facilitates networking opportunities for students with both clinical and academic dental industry professionals and with each other. We provide support to each other through every phase of the dental school application process, from the decision to pursue dentistry, to taking the DATs, finding an internship and opportunities for community service, to working on the applications, and finally to acceptance into school. Read more about Pre-Dental Society  » Minority Association for Pre-Medical Students (MAPS UMass Boston) UMass Boston MAPS is an organization which seeks to help undergraduate premedical students excel in both their undergraduate studies while preparing them for medical school. Read more about Minority Association for Pre-Medical Students (MAPS UMass Boston)  » Physician Assistant Student Association The Physician Assistant Student Association at the University of Massachusetts Boston represents the efforts of UMass Boston's diverse student body to unite in furtherance of the noble goals of the advanced clinical practice professions. It is our mission to be a resource for future PA students by identifying the essential educational requirements and embodying the humanitarian spirit of advanced practice collaborative healthcare professions. We invite all interested students and faculty to invest time in PASA and discover the many rewards gained from targeted community involvement and public health outreach. We hope to better prepare one another for the graduate school application and admissions process through the cooperative engagement of the UMB community of pre-PA students. Read more about Physician Assistant Student Association  » Undergraduate Biology Club Each week will be a different guest speaker (Doctor, Researcher, Instructor, UMB Faculty) In addition, there will be homework help, study sessions, breaks, games, science home experiments. Read more about Undergraduate Biology Club  » Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms