DACA & Undocumented - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Admissions DACA & Undocumented Menu menu Menu Visit UMass Boston Northeast Regional Tuition Break First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Admitted Students Parents DACA & Undocumented Undocumented Student Resources The University of Massachusetts Boston is the most diverse university in New England and offers a welcoming college community. We encourage all students, regardless of citizenship status or country of origin, to apply for admission to the university. We encourage students to review the information below to learn more about the application process and financial resources available for undocumented students. Tuition Equity Law & In-State Tuition Benefit In July 2023, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts passed the “High School Completers” Tuition Equity Law, expanding access to in-state tuition and state financial aid for students who have attended high school in Massachusetts and obtained a high school diploma or equivalent in Massachusetts. The Tuition Equity Law provides a pathway for certain non-US citizen students, including undocumented students, to access in-state tuition and state financial aid. To quality, students must: Attend at least three years of high school in Massachusetts. Graduate from a Massachusetts high school or receive the equivalent of a high school diploma (for example, a GED) in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Eligible non-U.S. citizens, including undocumented students, may qualify. Review a list of visa classifications that are ineligible to qualify for Tuition Equity . Apply for military Selective Service if eligible. Provide a valid Social Security Number, tax identification number, or a completed Tuition Equity Affidavit. For Frequently Asked Questions on the Tuition Equity Law, please visit this website . Current Students Enrolled Prior to Fall 2024 Review and submit the Tuition Equity Affidavit (use the form to upload any additional documentation: proof of Selective Service and/or official high school transcripts). Contact emgt@umb.edu with any questions regarding eligibility. Submit the Massachusetts Application for State Financial Aid (MAFSA) for the 2023-2024 aid year. New Students Enrolling Fall 2024 or Beyond The Office of Admissions will be in contact regarding next steps and eligibility. New undergraduate students should contact undergrad.admissions@umb.edu or call 617.287.6100. New graduate students should contact graduate.admissions@umb.edu or call 617.287.6100. The Massachusetts Application for State Financial Aid (MAFSA) for the 2024-2025 academic year is currently available. For Frequently Asked Questions on the Tuition Equity Law, please visit this website . Financing Your Education Students who meet the criteria outlined by the Tuition Equity Law will be eligible to be considered for the following: John and Abigail Adams Scholarship Massachusetts Application for State Financial Aid (MAFSA) Undergraduate Scholarships TheDream.US TheDream.US Scholarship TheDream.US is the nation's largest college access and success program for undocumented immigrant students. With no access to federal and limited access to state financial aid, staff at TheDream.US work with a community of partners to provide Dreamers an opportunity to obtain a college education by providing financial resources to make these students’ dreams a reality. In doing so, the scholarship program helps to address barriers and challenges facing undocumented students by providing them with funding to make up for the gap caused by a lack of federal financial aid resources. These scholarships are for highly-motivated undocumented students who want to get a college education but are unable to afford the cost. UMass Boston students may qualify to receive The National Scholarship, which is for first-time, current, or previously enrolled college students. Students should apply on the organization’s website. To qualify, students need to be undocumented or have DACA or TPS status, have significant unmet financial need, have graduated from a U.S. High School before Fall 2024, have a GPA of 2.5 or higher, be eligible for in-state tuition, and intend to enroll full-time in a bachelor’s degree. Scholarship funds may total up to $8,250 per academic year for each student. Learn More TheDream.US Scholarship UMass Boston Scholarships Apply for Admission Students are encouraged to apply online using either the Common Application or UMass Boston’s online application. When completing the application students should indicate that they are a non-U.S. citizen and a Massachusetts resident. Contact Us Contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions by phone at 617.287.6100 or by email so we can assist you with the process. Admissions Counselors are also available for individual appointments throughout the college application process. Campus Resources Additional Undocumented Student Resources The Office of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms