Senior Events - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Commencement Senior Events Menu menu Menu FAQs Speakers & Honorary Degrees Senior Events Photos, Rings & More Faculty Participation Accessibility Information Class of 2025 Senior Events Join us next semester to celebrate the upcoming Class of 2025. This year’s graduation events will bring together our soon-to-be graduates to celebrate your accomplishments as we countdown to Commencement. More events and details will be added in early 2025. 100 Days to Graduation Wednesday, February 19, 2025 Campus Center, 1st Floor Terrace 11:00 a.m to 2:00 p.m. Join us at the 100 Days to Graduation Event! The event will provide you the opportunity to; Apply to graduate through your WISER account. Be sure to clear any holds! Sign up to discuss your degree audit with a college advisor. Get your resume reviewed by Career Services! Learn details of your graduation ceremony. Connect with the Alumni Association. Order personalized announcements and class rings. Enter to win raffle prizes. Graduation Fair Tuesday, May 6, 2025 Campus Center, 3rd Floor, Ballroom 11:00 a.m to 2:00 p.m. Join fellow seniors to check holds with the Registrar’s Office, speak to an advisor from Academic & Career Engagement & Success Center (ACES) about your résumé, connect with the Office of Alumni Engagement, purchase your class ring or diploma frame, make your class gift and much more. Of course, we’ll have snacks and giveaways, too! Registration not required. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms