Business Analytics MS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Business Analytics MS Home Academics Majors & Programs Business Analytics MS Request Info Loading... Become an analysis expert–and a corporate asset. The Master of Science in Business Analytics (MSBA) program at UMass Boston is designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge you need to succeed in today's data-driven business world. You will learn how to collect, analyze, and interpret data to make informed business decisions, as well as develop your skills in communication, problem-solving, and critical thinking. The program emphasizes hands-on learning through real-world case studies and internships, and prepares graduates for careers in a wide range of industries, from health care and finance to technology and government. Taught by expert faculty with extensive industry experience, you will benefit from the program's strong network of corporate partners and alumni. The MSBA program offers students a choice of two specializations, Big Data Analytics and Supply Chain Analytics. In the MSBA with UMass Boston, you will: Be able to effectively analyze data to inform business decisions and strategies Use various tools and techniques to collect, clean, and manage large datasets, including machine learning and data mining algorithms Learn to effectively communicate your findings to various stakeholders and make recommendations for action based on their analysis Career Possibilities Analyze data and identify patterns or trends to make informed decisions as a business analyst. Implement statistical models to analyze large datasets as a data scientist. Or, conduct research to understand consumer behavior and preferences as a market research analyst. These are just a few of the possibilities an MSBA offers. Become a(n): Business Analyst Business Intelligence Analyst Data Scientist Market Research Analyst Marketing Manager Operations Manager Operations Research Analyst Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Official GMAT or GRE scores. A minimum, cumulative GPA of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale (or international equivalent) in all undergraduate work A bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited U.S. institution of recognized standing or an international equivalent at the time of enrollment Official transcripts for all institutions where you have earned more than 6 credits Two (2) letters of recommendation Statement of intent essay: This statement is your opportunity to show the graduate admissions committee why you wish to pursue graduate study, as well as your specific interest and goals. Applicants who completed the majority of their undergraduate coursework outside of the United States are typically required to submit official TOEFL, IELTS, PTE, or Duolingo English proficiency test scores. *Prerequisite Requirement: Students will need to have completed a statistics course, either Statistics MSIS 111 or MBAMS 630 Statistical Analysis for Managers , or an equivalent course within the last five years. Otherwise, students are required to take MBAMS 630 Statistical Analysis as part of their first semester. This course would be in addition to the required 10 courses for the degree. Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: April 1 (priority deadline) or June 15 (final deadline) for fall, October 1 (priority deadline) or December 1 (final deadline) for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum - Big Data Track The Big Data Analytics specialization focuses on data mining and analytical techniques, big data management, storage, and modeling. The objectives consist of enabling students to process big data in an effective and efficient way, discover knowledge patterns in big data, build predictive models, and use big data to answer business questions. The MSBA is a 10-course, 30-credit degree program. To receive the MSBA, students must complete a minimum of 10 courses: Analytical Core, MSBA Electives, and the MSBA Capstone. One (1) prerequisite course must be satisfied or waived through prior relevant coursework, based on a review of transcripts.* Core Courses (12 Credits) MSIS 642 - Multivariate Statistics and Regression Analysis 3 Credit(s) MSIS 670 - Enterprise Business Intelligence 3 Credit(s) MSIS 672 - Enterprise Data Mining and Predictive Analytics 3 Credit(s) MBAMS 638 - Management Decision Models 3 Credit(s) Track Courses (15 Credits) Complete five courses from below. MSIS 615 - Business Programming 3 Credit(s) MSIS 618 - Database Management 3 Credit(s) MSIS 643 - Decision and risk analysis 3 Credit(s) MSIS 656 - Information Storage Management 3 Credit(s) MSIS 671 - Enterprise Data Warehousing for Business Intelligence 3 Credit(s) MSIS 680 - Advanced Data Mining 3 Credit(s) MSIS 682 - Linear Programming 3 Credit(s) MSIS 685 - Introduction to Big Data Analytics 3 Credit(s) Capstone Course (3 Credits) MSIS 630 - Project & Change Management 3 Credit(s) Students may also choose MSIS 690/699 Master’s Thesis Option, MSIS 697 Special Topics and MBAMGT 698 Practicum (students must have relevant internship). Curriculum - Supply Chain Track The Supply Chain Analytics specialization focuses on data analytics and decision-making in the context of a major functional area in businesses-- supply chains. The specialization offers courses on analytics in-service operation. The objective is to use data and data modeling to optimize activities within the supply chain and consequently maximize the organization’s competitive advantage. The MSBA is a 10-course, 30-credit degree program. To receive the MSBA, students must complete a minimum of 10 courses: Analytical Core, MSBA Electives, and the MSBA Capstone. One (1) prerequisite course must be satisfied or waived through prior relevant coursework, based on a review of transcripts.* Core Courses (12 Credits) MSIS 642 - Multivariate Statistics and Regression Analysis 3 Credit(s) MSIS 670 - Enterprise Business Intelligence 3 Credit(s) MSIS 672 - Enterprise Data Mining and Predictive Analytics 3 Credit(s) MBAMS 638 - Management Decision Models 3 Credit(s) Track Courses (15 Credits) Complete five courses from below. MSIS 617 - Management of the Supply Chain 3 Credit(s) MSIS 631 - Operational Risk Management 3 Credit(s) MSIS 643 - Decision and Risk Analysis 3 Credit(s) MSIS 680 - Advanced Data Mining 3< Credit(s) MSIS 682 - Linear Programming 3 Credit(s) MBAMS 652 - Lean and Six Sigma Management 3 Credit(s) Capstone Course (3 Credits) MSIS 630 - Project & Change Management 3 Credit(s) Students may also choose MSIS 690/699 Master’s Thesis Option, MSIS 697 Special Topics and MBAMGT 698 Practicum (students must have relevant internship). Graduation Criteria Program Requirements: Complete 30 credits from 10 courses including four core courses, five track courses, and one capstone course. Capstone: Completion of a written paper. Track requirement: Candidates must select a track in big data analytics or supply chain analytics. Prerequisite: Candidates must have completed a statistics course, either MSIS 111 or MBAMS 630, or an equivalent course within the last five years. Students who have not met this requirement are required to take MBAMS 630 as part of their first semester in addition to the 10 courses required for the program. Statute of limitations: Eight years. Contact Graduate Program Director Romilla Syed romilla.syed@umb.edu (617) 287-7014 College of Management Graduate Programs gradcm@umb.edu Management Science and Information Systems Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Management Science and Information Systems, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Management Science and Information Systems College of Management Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Management. Explore College of Management Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Attend an Info Session Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms