This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > UGRD > edc u > edc u 470 UTeach: Research Methods Course #: EDC U 470 Description: Learning about science includes both learning material that has already been established (e.g., the structure of DNA, how to find forces on blocks being pushed up a ramp, the definition of an acid) and learning how scientists gained this knowledge (e.g., how new discoveries gain authority and are adopted by the scientific community, how to evaluate scientific claims when they conflict, how to design and carry out investigations to answer new questions). Most high school and undergraduate college science courses are devoted to presenting the first type of knowledge. Education in the second aspect of science has traditionally been left to graduate school. Research Methods simultaneously provides students specific techniques needed to address scientific questions and examples of how to provide this sort of training for students through individualized instruction. Core Components:1. The course is primarily a laboratory course in which students develop and practice skills that are fundamental to the scientific enterprise. 2. The course is organized around four independent inquiries that UTeach students design carry out. 3. The course emphasizes the use of mathematics to model and explain both the natural and man-made worlds.4. The course requires a substantial amount of writing. The written inquiries that students produce are evaluated as examples of scientific writing.5. The course emphasizes the development of skills that are directly applicable in teaching secondary science and mathematics (e.g., use of equipment, preparation of lab materials, safety issues, and use of technology). Pre Requisites: Offered in: TBA Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000