Contact - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Marine Operations Contact Menu menu Menu Harbor Cruises Choose Your Cruise Contact Facilities Forms Getting Here Rates Services Staff Contact Us Address UMass Boston Division of Marine Operations 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 Location on Campus Main Office: Wheatley Bldg; 1 st Floor; Room 020 Fox Point Dock is located between McCormack and Wheatley Halls, facing the water. Directions Public Transportation Subway: Take the Red Line to JFK/UMass Station. A free shuttle bus will carry you to the campus. Commuter Rail: Take the commuter rail to the JFK/UMass station from the South Shore on the Middleboro and Plymouth lines. By car from the North Take Interstate 93 South through Boston to exit 15 (JFK Library/South Boston/Dorchester) and follow the University of Massachusetts signs along Columbia Road and Morrissey Boulevard to the campus. By car from the South Take Interstate 93 North to exit 14 ( JFK Library/Morrissey Boulevard ) and follow Morrissey Boulevard north to the campus. By car from the West Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Interstate 90) east to Interstate 93. Take I-93 South one mile to exit 15 (JFK Library/South Boston/Dorchester) and follow the University of Massachusetts signs along Columbia Road and Morrissey Boulevard to the campus. By Boat Fox Point Landing: Lon 42" 18' N Lat: 071 02 W Transportation Services Directory General Office/Information 617.287.5404 Fax 617.287.5413 Email marineops@umb.edu CONTACT US Main Office: Wheatley Bldg; 1 st Floor; Room 020 617.287.5404 MarineOps@umb.edu 617.287.5413 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms