Student resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Canvas Student resources Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Training and resources Migration resources Student resources Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Canvas Resources for Students Students have a variety of support options for using Canvas. We recommend including the resources on this page in your orientation materials. Students should confirm Canvas use with their instructor. During the migration phase, students will have access to both systems. Access Canvas To access Canvas, navigate to https://umassboston.instructure.com and log on with your UMass Boston email username and password. Check Browser Be sure to use an approved browser for the best experience with Canvas . For the best results, use the latest versions of Chrome or Firefox. Get Oriented This Canvas Overview video is a good place to start to learn how navigate through the general areas in a Canvas account. Edit Profile Customize your Canvas profile to establish your learner presence and connect with peers: User Settings in Canvas Edit Notifications In Canvas, you can customize your account notification settings to stay organized and up to date with course activity: Review and choose notifications. Complete Learning Activities Completing graded assignments and activities in Canvas is straightforward. These tasks will typically be accessible through their respective module pages, making it easier for you to navigate and stay organized. Assignments in Canvas Discussions in Canvas Quizzes in Canvas Groups in Canvas View Grades As you participate in graded activities, you can view your grades and view the feedback provided by your instructor. View resources about Grades in Canvas . The Canvas Student App Canvas also has a free mobile app available for iOS and Android that is specifically tailored to students. View information about the Student app. More Video Tutorials Canvas Resources for Students is an excellent collection to share with students. It contains short video demonstrations on key tasks in Canvas, including participating in discussions, submitting assignments viewing grades, and more: Canvas Resources for Students 24/7 Help for Canvas Students have access to Canvas support through the Help link located on the Canvas global navigation menu, accessible from any course. Available formats are phone and live chat: Chat with Canvas Support (Student) Canvas Support Hotline: +1 (855) 235-1564 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms