William Monroe Trotter Institute - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni William Monroe Trotter Institute Home William Monroe Trotter Institute Menu menu Menu Research & Impact People Resources News & Events Tuesdays at the Trotter The Study of Black Culture As a center that supports the mission of social justice for Black communities, t he William Monroe Trotter Institute condemns the tragic killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and others affected by police and racial violence. The Institute emphasizes the need to confront local police brutality cases that are often overlooked. We advocate for new approaches to combat such issues, including defunding police, reallocating funds to communities of color, mandatory anti-racism training, and federal action against police brutality and racial profiling. Follow Us on YouTube Connect With Trotter Looking for ways to get involved? Check out the Tuesdays at the Trotter event series and listen to the Black in Boston and Beyond podcast, hosted by our own Dr. Williams. Tuesdays at the Trotter Tuesdays at the Trotter is an ongoing virtual professional development event series. The event is held monthly on Tuesdays during the regular semester Black in Boston and Beyond Podcast This podcast explores the history and experiences of the Black community in Boston and beyond. Hosted by Dr. Hettie V. Williams, Director of the Trotter Institute. Explore the William Monroe Trotter Institute Research & Impact Resources News & Media Support Trotter About Us The William Monroe Trotter Institute for the Study of Black Culture aims to serve as an intellectual hub to support the mission of social justice for Black communities. The Institute takes its name from early twentieth-century African-American activist William Monroe Trotter, whose political advocacy, radical journalism, and Black internationalism placed Black Diasporic communities across the United States, the Caribbean, and Africa in critical conversation. Mission: To address the concerns of Black communities in Boston and Massachusetts through critical research, public advocacy, and community engagement. Vision: To be a thriving intellectual hub that supports the mission of social justice for Boston’s Black Diasporas via digital humanities, innovative research, and local and global collaborations. What We Do Build a Digital Footprint of Black Boston Through social advocacy, digital humanities, and community engagement, Trotter seeks to document and archive Black Boston’s complex political, cultural, and socio-economic experiences. This includes research-driven explorations of the intersections between race, community development, health, education, gender, diasporas, and environmental justice. Plus, our publications aim to inform the public about the challenges and opportunities facing Black Boston. These include our policy brief series, Resilience, and our longstanding journal, The Trotter Review . Mapping Black Boston’s Experiences Trotter is mapping the experiences of Black Boston in its wonderfully diverse African-American, African, Caribbean, Afro-Latinx, Afro-Asian, and Pacific Islander populations. These Black communities are significant stakeholders in the cultural, economic, and political fabric of Boston and Massachusetts. Follow Us On Social Media Trotter YouTube Trotter Facebook Trotter X (formerly Twitter) William Monroe Trotter Institute for the Study of Black Culture Healey Library, 10th Floor, Suite 12 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone : 617.287.5879 Fax : 617.287.5865 Hettie.Williams@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms