- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 College of Liberal Arts Launches Humanities Hub - Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications College of Liberal Arts Launches Humanities Hub 02/28/2020 |
    Office of Communications UMass Boston has a new dedicated space for the humanities on campus. Located on the 8th floor of Healey Library, the Humanities Hub is a flexible space that can serve as a classroom, meeting space, or work space for students and faculty engaged in humanities-based events and activities. Associate Professor of Philosophy Danielle Bromwich's class meets in the new Humanities Hub. Image By: Colleen Locke A capacity crowd of students, faculty, and staff celebrated UMass Boston’s love for the humanities with a Valentine's Day-themed launch on February 13. “We envisioned a space for hands-on learning,” noted College of Liberal Arts Dean David Terkla. “I am delighted that we now have a space on campus where our stellar humanities faculty and students can work creatively and collaboratively.” The launch of the Hub marks another milestone in the implementation of the university’s High-Impact Humanities (HIH) Initiative funded by a $515,000 grant from the Andrew W.  Mellon Foundation . The signature element of the program are 24 new humanities courses that incorporate experiential learning, providing students with opportunities to integrate coursework with visits to community-based organizations and cultural institutions. The Hub will become a destination for humanities faculty and students to work on and display projects, listen to guest speakers, and host activities like poetry readings. The Hub will also serve as a home for the Mellon HIH Student Advisory Board, which advises faculty on program development and organizes humanities-focused student events. Next, the Hub will help to kick off CLA’s Undergraduate Research Week on Monday, April 27 with an all-day celebration of student work in the humanities. This campus-wide event will include a teach-in featuring new high-impact humanities classes developed with funding from the Mellon grant. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city’s history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms