Going the Distance - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Going the Distance Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Beacons Magazine Fall 2023 Going the Distance 12/08/2023 |
    Andrea Kennedy Reflecting on a decade of the Run for Krystle Marathon Team On April 17, 2023, the members of UMass Boston’s Run for Krystle Marathon Team laced up their sneakers, pinned on their bibs, and joined almost 30,000 fellow racers in the 127th running of the Boston Marathon. As always, when the going got grueling, they found motivation in the reason behind their run. “You have to say to yourself, ‘I’m running because Krystle can’t,’” said nine-time Run for Krystle team member Rhonda Hodge ’13, G’20, DNP’20. “That’s enough to continue to take one more step.” “Krystle” is Krystle Campbell, a UMass Boston student who was killed in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing. Over the 10 years since that tragic day, the Run for Krystle team has raced more than 2,000 miles in Krystle’s honor—and helped raise more than $1.35 million for the scholarship founded in her name. The effort was launched by former UMass trustee Dick Campbell ’70. Dick and Krystle never met, but he was struck by similarities in their backgrounds: both Campbells, both from the same Medford, Mass., neighborhood, both attendees of the same high school and college. “It just hit home. What a horrible thing. Her life was on an upward trajectory, and then it was cut short,” said Campbell. Wanting to build something “useful and worthwhile” from the tragedy, Campbell and his late wife, Barbara, asked Krystle’s parents for permission to name a scholarship at UMass Boston in Krystle’s honor. With their blessing, Dick and Barbara seeded the endowed Krystle Campbell Scholarship Fund in 2013, creating a yearly $5,000 award for students like Krystle: high-achieving undergraduates majoring in business at UMass Boston. Dick and Barbara were also the first to suggest that UMass Boston launch a marathon team to raise additional funds for the scholarship. The first marathon team was formed in 2014 and consisted of many Campbell family members and their friends. It has since grown to include a tight-knit group of nearly 60 UMass Boston alumni, faculty, and friends. Through their fundraising, thousands of donors from the UMass Boston community and beyond have contributed to the scholarship fund. As a result, its annual impact has increased. Eight students were chosen to receive the award this year, bringing the total number of recipients since 2015 to 32. “Every student who receives one gets to breathe a sigh of relief from the financial burden of school,” said Erin Collins ’25, of Quincy, Mass., who was one of this year’s awardees. This year’s marathon, the 10 th anniversary of the bombing, was emotional for many on the Run for Krystle team, knowing the impact of the scholarship they helped build will continue for generations. “The fact that we’ve been at this for 10 years speaks volumes about the dedication of our runners and the immense generosity of our donors,” said Paul Dyson ’00, a senior lecturer in UMass Boston’s English department and eight-time Run for Krystle team member. “That we can serve the university’s students and Krystle’s memory in this way is really wonderful and humbling.” If you are interested in learning more about the Krystle Campbell Scholarship Fund, visit umb.edu/runforkrystle. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms