Skin Cancer Prevention - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Health Services Health Happenings Skin Cancer Prevention Menu menu Menu About Emergencies Health Happenings COVID-19 Seasonal Flu Choices Regarding Pregnancy Party Drugs and Substance Use Skin Cancer Prevention Climate Effects on Health Gambling & Sports Betting Counseling Center General Medicine Wellness Patient Resources Immunizations & Health Requirements Forms Billing My Health Beacon Portal General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu Skin Cancer Prevention Skin Smart Campus Initiative The University of Massachusetts Boston is recognized as a Skin Smart Campus by the National Council on Skin Cancer Prevention. We are dedicated to ensuring the well-being of our students by: Keeping indoor tanning devices off campus and affiliated buildings. Promoting skin cancer prevention policies and education. Understanding Skin Cancer Skin Cancer is the most common type of cancer in the United States. There are three main types: Basal and Squamous Cell Carcinomas: Highly curable but can be disfiguring and costly. Melanoma: The third most common skin cancer, which can be deadly. Risk Factors of Skin Cancer General risk factors include: Light skin that burns, freckles, or reddens easily. A large number of moles. Personal or family history of skin cancer. History of sun exposure and sunburns, especially in early life. History of indoor tanning. Even if you have a darker skin tone, you can still get skin cancer. It is often diagnosed later in people of color, making it harder to treat. Melanoma in people of color can occur on palms, soles, undernails, and other areas. Sun Safety Practices The majority of skin cancers are caused by exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light and can be prevented with sun safety practices: Seek Shade: Find shade under trees, shade sails, or pavillions. Carry a sun umbrella. Use a pop-up UV shelter at the beach or park. Avoid the sun from 10 AM - 4 PM if possible, when UV radiation is strongest. Wear Sunscreen: Use broad-spectrum UVA and UVB, SPF 30 or higher. Reapply every 2 hours and after swimming, sweating, or towelling off. Use about one ounce (a palmful) for full coverage. Wear Protective Clothing: Long sleeves and pants with a dense weave or built-in UPF. Wide-brimmed hat. Closed-toe shoes and socks. Wear Sunglasses: Choose sunglasses with UV protection. Protects delicate skin around the eyes and reduces the risk of cataracts and macular degeneration. Check the UV Index: Review the UV index (found in most weather apps). Dermatologists recommend protection when the UV index is 3 and above. Limit sun exposure as UV index levels approach 6 and above. Self-Skin Exams Performing regular self-skin exams can help detect melanoma early. Look for the following signs (ABCDEs of Melanoma): Asymmetry : Moles that are not symmetrical. Border : Moles with blurry or jagged edges. Color : Moles with more than one color. Diameter : Moles larger than a pencil eraser (6 mm or 1/4 inch). Evolution : Moles that change in size, shape, or color. Additional Resources Facts & Statistics | Skin Cancer Foundation Skin Cancer in People of Color | Skin Cancer Foundation Sun Safety | US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms