Lauren.Sullivan - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Lauren.Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Department: Anthropology Title: Senior Lecturer III Location: McCormack Hall Floor 04 Phone: 617.287.6855 Send Email Areas of Expertise Mesoamerican Archaeology; Maya lowlands; development of complex society; ceramic analysis Degrees PhD University of Texas at Austin Additional Information Lauren A. Sullivan has a PhD in Anthropology from the University of Texas at Austin.  She has been involved in field research in the Maya lowlands since 1987.  Her early interests included the development of complex society in northern Belize with a focus on Preclassic architecture and ceramics.  She also worked on a number of prehistoric sites in Texas.  More recently, Lauren has focused on the analysis of ceramics recovered from a number of sites in northwestern Belize (small and large) in order to develop a regional chronology and to examine patterns of trade, exchange, and social organization.  In addition, she is working on Cunil pottery from the site of Cahal Pech in the Belize River Valley and is the Associate Project Director of the St. George’s Caye Archaeological Project. She is directs a University of Massachusetts Boston field school in northwestern Belize each summer ( https://www.umb.edu/academics/caps/international/belize ). Courses she teaches include two General Education Seminars: Food and Society and The Rise and Fall of the Maya. Some of her publications include "Evidence for Changing Dynamics in the Regional Integration of Northwestern Belize" in Ancient Maya Political Economies (edited by Marilyn A. Masson and David Freidel), "Changing Political Alliances in the Three Rivers Region" (co-authored with Kerry Sagebiel) in Heterarchy, Political Economy, and the Ancient Maya (edited by Vernon L. Scarborough, Fred Valdez, Jr. and Nicholas P. Dunning), “Structure Abandonment and Landscape Transformation: Examples from the Three Rivers Region” in The Use and Perception of Abandoned Structures in the Maya Lowlands, edited by Travis W. Stanton and Aline Magnoni, and “Establishing the Cunil Ceramic Complex at Cahal Pech, Belize” (co-authored with Jaime J. Awe) in Ancient Maya Pottery (edited by Jim Aimers).  Lauren is also the faculty sponsor for the Beta of Massachusetts Lambda Alpha Chapter (the National Collegiate Honor Society for Anthropology.) UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms