Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Africana Studies Student Resources Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Student Resources West Africa Today Designed to open new horizons on one of Africa’s most exciting regions, this program will incorporate academic course work, guest lectures, service learning projects, summer travel and participation in an international conference into a unique learning experience. Click here for more information. Haiti Today Explore Haiti’s history, politics, culture, and economy from both external and internal perspectives. Students visit significant cultural, historical, and ecological sites including day trips to St. Marc, Gonaives, and Kenscoff. The program takes place at l’Université des Caribes in Montrouis, on the western coast of Haiti. Participants earn up to six credits. Learn More About Haiti Today Alumni & Careers Africana Homecoming Program Each spring semester, the department organizes an annual gathering of the Alumni along with current majors and minors. The Africana Homecoming Program is an opportunity to continue promoting the work of the department and its various activities and programs to Africana studies alumni, majors, minors, the broader campus community and the greater Boston African and African Diaspora community. Networking Event Each year we host an alumni dinner and networking event, an occasion for Africana studies graduates and current majors to gather and discuss progress in the field as well as career options. In addition, local prominent figures in Africana studies and African-American community organizations are invited to participate and to socialize with students, faculty and alumni. Scholarships & Awards The Department of Africana Studies at University of Massachusetts Boston has created a roster of prizes and fellowships for students and faculty. It is our hope that these awards will stimulate important scholarly inquiry into this emerging field of academic discourse, and promote community service throughout America and the African Diaspora. Clinton M. Jean Book Prize The Clinton M. Jean Book Prize in Africana Studies was established in honor of Professor Clinton Jean (1936-1993), former Professor of Black Studies. Born in Trinidad, Professor Jean came to the University of Massachusetts after completing his studies at Columbia University and his PhD in Sociology at Brandeis University. A dedicated teacher and scholar, Professor Jean published a number of articles, and an acclaimed book, Behind the Eurocentric Veils: The Search for African Realities . The Clinton M. Jean Book Prize is given each year to a graduating senior who has the highest Grade Point Average in the Department of Africana Studies. David Walker Prize The David Walker Prize has been established in the Department of Africana Studies to recognize achievement in both scholarship and community service.  A cash scholarship will be given annually to a graduating senior, who majors in Africana Studies, is nominated and shows evidence of involvement in Boston community development projects for at least one year while enrolled as a student at the University of Massachusetts Boston, and superior academic achievement. Harriet Tubman Essay Prize The Harriet Tubman Essay Prize has been established in the Department of Africana Studies to stimulate student research on issues of Black freedom and resistance. The prize has been named after the great nineteenth century freedom fighter, Harriet Tubman, who escaped from slavery, but returned to the South to rescue at least two hundred (200) Blacks from slavery. She has been called “the greatest heroine of the age,” a freedom fighter who put her own freedom in jeopardy in order to secure freedom for others. The prize is given this year to the student who best exemplifies courage and determination to succeed academically against all odds. Charles E. Merrill Caribbean Study Fellowships These fellowships enable students at the University of Massachusetts to study, travel and conduct research abroad under the guidance and supervision of University of Massachusetts Boston faculty members. The endowed fellowship program creates a pool of financial resources from which the Department can draw to support travel and resource initiatives for students. The James Bradford Ames Fellowship Program The purpose of the Ames fellowship program is to support long term research and publications on all aspects of African-American and Cape Verdean social history in Nantucket, Martha’s Vineyard, Cape Cod and New Bedford. Specifically, the awards are intended to encourage detailed studies of influential families and individuals from the region, including their professions and major occupational activities and the history of the African-American and Cape Verdean presence throughout the area. The research may be approached from any discipline or comparative perspective which helps to place these communities in a broader national, regional or global perspective. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms