Faculty Participation - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Commencement Faculty Participation Menu menu Menu FAQs Speakers & Honorary Degrees Senior Events Photos, Rings & More Faculty Participation Accessibility Information Faculty Participation You must register to attend! There will be a total of three Commencement ceremonies this year: Doctoral Hooding Wednesday, May 22, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. Campus Center Ballroom, 3rd Floor This ceremony is for students receiving a doctoral degree . Only faculty who are hooding doctoral candidates will take part in the formal ceremony. Other faculty members who are not hooding may march in the academic procession and sit in a reserved section in the ballroom. However, due to limited space, faculty and other members of campus are encouraged to view the ceremony in one of the satellite viewing areas in the Campus Center or streaming on the UMass Boston website. Faculty registration is now closed. Graduate Commencement Wednesday, May 22, 2024 at 3:00 p.m. UMass Boston, Campus Center Lawn This ceremony is for students receiving doctoral and master’s degrees, certificates of advanced graduate study (CAGS and EDS), and post-master’s certificates. Faculty are encouraged to wear regalia and participate in the academic procession. Faculty participating in the academic procession will be seated on stage. Faculty registration is now closed. Undergraduate Ceremony Thursday, May 23, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. UMass Boston, Campus Center Lawn This ceremony is for students receiving bachelor's degrees . Faculty are encouraged to wear academic regalia and participate in the academic procession. Faculty participating in the academic procession will be seated on stage. Faculty registration is now closed. The academic procession is one of the oldest university traditions and is widely viewed as a symbol of our collective dedication to the development of knowledge and academic inquiry. In accordance with article 15.9 of the FSU collective bargaining agreement, Faculty are all expected to be a part of our academic procession. Regalia If plan to march in the academic procession, and you do not have your own academic regalia, you may rent regalia for the day from Balfour. Please note that the university does not pay for the purchase or rental of regalia for faculty members. Please keep the box your order is delivered in, as you will need the box and the accompanying return shipping label inside to return your rental to Balfour. Place your rental order online through Balfour's Online Order form . The deadline for placing rental orders is Sunday, April 7, 2024. Retired Faculty Members If you are retired faculty, you are invited to participate in or attend the commencement ceremonies. You must complete a registration form to indicate your attendance plans so that we can ensure seating for you. Retired faculty registration is now closed. If you have any questions regarding the commencement ceremony, please contact University Events & Ceremonies at events@umb.edu or 617-287-5313. Commencement 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 USA 617.287.5000 Maps & Directions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms