Travel - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Italian Cultural Studies Travel Menu menu Menu Essay Events Faculty Travel Travel Dear friends of the Catherine Frisone Scott Center for Italian Cultural Studies at UMass Boston in Honor of John B. Frisone, Our Center would like to help fund your travel to Italy! Will you be traveling to Italy on a UMass Boston-approved program or for an independent project? If so, you are eligible to apply for a grant that you can put toward the cost of that program and travel. Winners will be listed on our Center’s webpage and Facebook page. Grants will be for $500. Please email applications as an attachment to ItalianCenter@umb.edu . Applications should include the following: The name of the student and transcript from UMass Boston The name of the study-abroach or research program Dates and location of travel in Italy A description of the study-abroach or research program (300 words maximum) A description of the student's interest in Italian culture and how the program fits into their studies (300 words maximum) Contact information (including email address) for an academic reference from UMass Boston The submission deadline will be announced later this academic year. The winner will be announced in early May. Are you faculty organizing a trip to Italy? Please encourage your students to apply for this award! For any questions please do not hesitate to contact us at ItalianCenter@umb.edu . Catherine Frisone Scott Center for Italian Cultural Studies 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms