Resources To Share With Family And Friends - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Resources4U Resources To Share With Family And Friends Menu menu Menu Financial Resources Food Insecurity Support Home Heating Reources Mental Health And Staying Safe From Violence Other Support Prejudice Resources To Share With Family And Friends Tenants Rights And Protections Resources to share with family and friends For many students, joining the UMass Boston community will be their first experience living away from home for a prolonged time. Here are some helpful resources that can help you and your student better communicate about their life on campus. Resources for UMass Boston Parents, Families, & Friends Supporting your student as they start their college career at UMass Boston UMass Boston family workshops and programs UMass Boston Health Services Counseling Center The counseling center continues to offer services through telehealth for students Additional Resources Prepare your student before arrival on campus Transitioning to College: Parents Can Help Ease the Process The JED website offers a wealth of information about how to best prepare your student before arrival on campus, as well as how to navigate mental health and wellness while in college. Start the Conversation: College and Your Mental Health Transition to College: Separation and Change for Parents and Students The Healthy Student: Preparing for the College Years College Parents of America Helping Your First Year College Student Succeed: A Guide for Parents National Parent Helpline Available Monday-Friday, 12pm-9am CT emotional support and advocacy for parents:1-855-427-2736 Book recommendations for families, friends, and students Good Books for Families & Friends On Transition Letting Go: A Parents’ Guide to Understanding the College Years, Karen Levin Coburn, Madge Lawrence Treeger, 2009. She’s Leaving Home: Letting Go as a Daughter Goes to College, Connie Jones, 2002. Don’t Tell Me What To Do, Just Send Money by E. Johnson & Christine Schelhas-Miller, 2011. I'll Miss You Too: An Off-to-College Guide for Parents and Students: What Will Change, What Will Not, and How We'll Stay Connected by Margo E. Woodacre and Steffany Bane (2006) Almost Grown: Launching Your Child From High School to College by Patricia Pasick (1998) When Your Kid Goes to College: A Parent's Survival Guide by Carol Barkin (1999) Helping Your Student A Parent’s Guide to Sex, Drugs, and Flunking Out: Answers to the Questions Your College Student Doesn’t Want You to Ask, Joel Epstein, 2001. You’re On Your Own (But I’m Here if You Need Me): Mentoring Your Child During the College Years, Marjorie Savage, 2003. For Students, Families & Friends College Rules! How to Study, Survive and Succeed in College, Sherrie L. Nist, Jodi Patrick Holschuh, Sherrie Nist, 2011. Your College Experience: Strategies for Success, John N. Gardner, A. Jerome Jewler, 2011. Chicken Soup for the College Soul: Inspiring and Humorous Stories About College, Mark Victor Hansen, Kimberly Kirberger, Dan Clark, Jack Canfield, 1999. College Of The Overwhelmed: The Campus Mental Health Crisis And What To Do About It by Richard Kadison, M.D. & Theresa Foy DiGeronimo, 2005. National Parent Helpline National Parent Helpline is available Monday-Friday,12pm-9am CT and provides emotional support and advocacy for parents:1-855-427-2736. Being a parent is a critically important job, 24 hours a day. It’s not always easy. Call to get emotional support from a trained advocate and become empowered and a stronger parent. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms