Accessibility Information - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Commencement Accessibility Information Menu menu Menu FAQs Speakers & Honorary Degrees Senior Events Photos, Rings & More Faculty Participation Accessibility Information Accessibility Information Accessibility Aides At the graduation and doctoral hooding sites there will be an identified table to collect pre-reserved devices and accessible materials, including assisted listening devices, alternative format programs, and other reserved accessibility aides. Accessible Parking at UMass Boston Accessible paid parking is available in a few locations on campus, including: Campus Center Garage (limited to vehicles with HP placard) West Garage (HP and general parking) Lot D (HP and general parking) Bayside Lot (HP and general parking) A campus map shows the location of each parking lot. Free shuttles will run from the Bayside Lot and West Garage to the Campus Center. All of the UMass Boston’s transportation shuttles are accessible and are equipped with a wheel-chair lift. The larger shuttles are outfitted with low floors and have the ability to "kneel" to allow accessible access. The accessibility lift can also be activated to assist with boarding and un-boarding of the shuttle without climbing or descending stairs. A valid state issued HP license plate, hang tag or UMB Temporary Accessible Parking Permit is required to park in a designated accessible parking space. Accessible Seating – Undergraduate and Graduate Ceremony For graduates : Specific seating locations are designated within the ceremony area for each individual school/college. Graduating students requiring an accessible path of travel will be seated near the main stage in an area with hard flooring on the accessible path. Graduates will join their school/ college for the processional onto the lawn and to cross the stage area during the ceremony. Upon request a commencement volunteer will be assigned to assist graduates requiring mobility assistance. For guests : A specific seating location with hard flooring on an accessible path of travel is designated on the commencement lawn. Guests who use wheelchairs and scooters may be accompanied by a companion. Commencement volunteers will be available to direct guests to the accessible seating area. Guest Drop off Locations Closer to the ceremony date an updated map will be distributed identifying road closures and accessible drop off locations near the ceremony site. Service Animals Service dogs are welcome to accompany their disabled handler at the graduation ceremonies and doctoral hooding. Pets are not permitted at any of the ceremonies. Temporary Restrooms Accessible portable restrooms will be provided near the back of the campus center lawn on an accessible path of travel. Wheelchair rentals No mobility equipment will be provided by the University, so persons with mobility impairments are encouraged to arrange for rental of their own wheelchairs, walker, etc. Belmont Medical Supply- 85 Belmont Street, Belmont MA 617-484-3888; cost $25/day Gary Drug Company – 59 Charles Street, Boston MA, 617-227-0023; cost $20/ day Sullivan’s Medical Supply – 1 Corinth Street, Roslindale MA; 617-325-0013, cost $25/day plus mandatory delivery and pick up charges of $25 each way. Doctoral Hooding Ceremony at the UMB Campus Center Ballroom: Seating during the Doctoral Hooding Ceremony For students: An appropriate accessible location will be reserved for each doctoral graduate who requires accessible seating or room for mobility devices. For guests, ample seating locations are designated within the ballroom for wheelchair guests. If you have questions or comments regarding this accommodations process or need additional assistance, please contact GradADA@umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms