- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News New Grant Funds UMass Boston, Bunker Hill Communit Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications New Grant Funds UMass Boston, Bunker Hill Community College Collaboration to Enhance Pathways for AANAPISI Students 02/24/2023 |
    Office of Communications $2.5M Funding to Help Build Community College-to-University Program A five-year grant from the U.S. Department of Education will fund a plan for UMass Boston to work with Bunker Hill Community College (BHCC) to implement a culturally sustaining transfer pathway that enhances the capacities of each institution. This new funding comes at a critical time given the dual pandemic of COVID-19 and anti-Asian hate aimed at Asian American students, families, and communities. “As a leading Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institution (AANAPISI), this new grant is an authentic recognition of the importance of the work UMass Boston is doing with Bunker Hill Community College,” said UMass Boston Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco . “Our partnership with BHCC will strengthen our support for the many students from communities who are often first-generation college goers from immigrant and/or refugee families.” Bunker Hill Community College is also a minority-serving institution with federal designations as an AANAPISI and Hispanic Serving Institution and has a long history of partnering with UMass Boston. “Bunker Hill Community College’s collaboration with UMass Boston is a model for creating pathways to higher education for Asian American learners. This funding is an affirmation of that work,” said BHCC President Pam Eddinger . “As Boston’s only federally-designated AANAPISI institutions, BHCC and UMass Boston share a commitment to lifting up Asian communities everywhere and supporting student success.” This is UMass Boston’s fifth AANAPISI grant since 2010, totaling nearly $9.5 million. Over the past decade, UMass Boston has developed a strong, reciprocal partnership with BHCC, the only other AANAPISI in the city of Boston. The cornerstones of this project are the establishment of accelerated and aligned curricular pathways and academic support services; integrated and affinity-based academic advising; career development and work-based learning; and collaborative, asset-based student success outcomes assessment, data-sharing, and dissemination of findings. This newly funded, five-year cooperative partnership is critical because the largest share of Asian American transfer students at UMass Boston begin their studies at BHCC. In fall 2021, 24% of all undergraduate transfer students who enrolled at UMass Boston transferred from BHCC, and of those BHCC transfers, 16% identified as Asian American. In fall 2021, of all UMass Boston transfer students who are Asian American, 34% transferred from BHCC. This cross-institutional AANAPISI work is built on shared principles of equity and cultural wealth, taking a holistic and collaborative approach to integrating direct student services, curriculum alignment and enhancement, faculty/staff development, and practice-focused research, including the innovative use of AANAPISI-centered storytelling and knowledge co-production. While programming focuses on low-income, first-generation, Asian American students at UMass Boston and BHCC, all students are encouraged to participate in project services. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . About Bunker Hill Community College Bunker Hill Community College is the largest community college in Massachusetts, enrolling approximately 18,000 students annually. BHCC has two campuses in Charlestown and Chelsea, and a number of other locations throughout the Greater Boston area. BHCC is one of the most diverse institutions of higher education in Massachusetts. Sixty-five percent of the students are people of color and more than half of BHCC's students are women. The College also enrolls nearly 600 international students who come from 94 countries and speak more than 75 languages. To learn more, visit www.bhcc.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms