Posting Advertising - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Campus Center Home Campus Center Services Posting Advertising Menu menu Menu Contact Services Atms Campus Store Dining Information Desk Key Requests Lounge Posting Advertising Wireless Access Students There are many posting and advertising options located in the Campus Center. Here is a list of some of our most popular: Postings and Flyers There are eight (8) designated posting areas within the building. These boards are located at the primary entrances/exits and on each floor of the Campus Center. Please bring (8) copies of the poster/flier to the Campus Center office and we will have them posted in the building. Posters/flyers must be approved and stamped first by the Office of Student Life before they will be posted. Unstamped posters and flyers are removed routinely by the Campus Center staff. Please do not post in undesignated areas. Postings must be related to a university department or student organization function/event/program. If you have a large posting or event flier, please come to the Campus Center Office and we can supply you with easels or temporary sign holders. Non-university posters, flyers and advertisements are not permitted (except on the day of a scheduled conference or event). Student Organization Banners Student organizations are encouraged to post banners advertising their group. Banners are hung from the railings, and may be placed in the Atrium Café Lounge, or the University Terrace Area. Banners cannot be hung from the office windows. Only registered student organizations may hang banners and each must include website address or contact information for the club or group. Banners must be professionally created and must not be on a bed sheet, cardboard or other flammable material. They may not be larger than 6ft long and 3ft wide. Each group may not have any more than one student organization banner at one time. Banners may remain hung permanently as long as the student organization is registered. Please bring banners to the CC office to be hung. The Campus Center is not responsible for potential theft of vandalism. Banners may be removed and re-hung for selected university events and programs. Flags The Campus Center has designated an area in the Atrium (Level 1, 2 & 3) for the display of flags. Each flag in this area has been donated by a current student, faculty or staff member. New flags are welcome and must conform to the following: Flags are to be 3’ x 5’ feet, in good condition, professionally manufactured and flame retardant. Flags may remain hanging indefinitely, however UMass Boston is not responsible for the theft or damage of donated flags; The university considers the US Department of State the primary authority when displaying flags of a newly recognized country or the redesign of an existing country's flag; Flags that are intended to make a statement, symbols for a group, a social movement, etc., are welcome as long as they are not in violation of university policy or the student code of conduct. Items containing a written message, motto or advertisement are considered a banner. See the section of our website pertaining to banner displays. If you would like to donate a flag to the Campus Center, please visit the CC Office, Upper Level 330, or contact us at Campus.Center@umb.edu Snap Frame Display Posters Seven display snap frames, located in the Food Court, are available for UMass Boston student organizations and departments for the purpose of promoting an event or service.  Availability is on a first come, first serve basis.  Please contact Campus Center Administration (617.287.4800 or campus.center@umb.edu) for scheduling and availability. The display frames can be reserved for a two week period. All materials will be installed and removed by the student Building Manager Staff.  Posters for the display frames must be approved and stamped first by the Office of Student Life before they will be posted.  Posters are to measure 24” wide by 36” length with a visible image of 22” wide by 34” in length (The 2” border will ensure the best visual presentation).  Posters should be professionally printed, preferable through Quinn Graphics. Foam Core Signs Many departments and student groups utilize foam-core posters and signs to advertise their program or event. Signs can be placed in the main lobby (upper Level), plaza entrance (level 1), catwalk entrance (level 2), and at the entrance to the food court (level 1). Posters can be displayed for a maximum of two weeks prior to the event date. If a longer display period is required, please contact the Campus Center office to inquire about extended placement. Given the high demand for poster placement, a permanent display is not permitted. The Campus Center is an open and accessible building and therefore does not have the ability to police or protect posters. We are not responsible for replacing damaged, missing or stolen posters. Foam core posters left on display after the event date will be recycled. Please bring your poster to the Campus Center Office and we will gladly place it in the location of your choice. Posting and Advertising Policies Read More UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms