Business Administration PhD - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Business Administration PhD Home Academics Majors & Programs Business Administration PhD Request Info Loading... Collaborate, exchange ideas, and grow with an engagement-based PhD. Are you the right fit for the Business Administration PhD at UMass Boston? The program’s distinguishing feature is the collegial spirit and noncompetitive nature of the community, where students collaborate on projects and assist each other and participate in joint research with faculty. Our informal atmosphere and open-door policy encourage students to engage in conversation with faculty or continue seminar discussions with distinguished visitors beyond the allotted class time and space. To prepare for the academic path, students participate in a teaching seminar and practicum in their second year and then are offered opportunities to teach a variety of undergraduate courses. Career development workshops are also offered, and focus on topics such as writing research grants, the interviewing process, and delivering a successful research talk. Three distinct tracks of this program are available to suit the differing needs of PhD candidates: Organizations and Social Change (OSC) , Finance , and Information Systems for Data Science and Management . Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Finance Track UMass Boston's Business Administration PhD - Finance track is a full-time, in-residence program lasting 4 to 5 years. The program prepares students to be academic researchers, tenure-track professors, or for careers in government organizations and the private sector. The finance track provides a unique curriculum. It’s taught by both accounting and finance faculty and demands competency tests in both subject areas. Additionally, the curriculum has been updated to include state-of-the-art classes in data science (natural language processing, machine learning, and textual analysis). This new emphasis on data science provides students the tools needed to differentiate their research in a very competitive area. Learn more about students' job placements . Students accepted into the program generally qualify for a stipend ($31,000 per year for four years, subject to satisfactory academic progress) and full tuition credits. Students may also apply for grants for conference participation. Travel grants annually fund academic conference presentations. Additionally, teaching opportunities and summer internships at financial institutions are encouraged to complement the stipend. Small class sizes (4-6 students) allow closer interaction with faculty publishing in top-ranked journals to develop research niches. We organized international conferences to signal that competence ( Corporate Social Responsibility in 2019, 2021, and 2023 ). Mindful of the teaching career – a course on teaching skills is also part of the required curriculum. Recognizing the diverse insights other disciplines may bring, students can attend classes from two additional tracks of our PhD Business Administration program – the Organizations & Social Change and Information Systems for Data Science track. Competency tests in Accounting are also part of the required curriculum. Who Should Apply The finance program track is designed for students who are interested in pursuing a full-time doctoral program specializing in areas such as: corporate finance (e.g., corporate governance and control, executive compensation, capital structure, payout policy, raising capital, and corporate social responsibility) investments and asset pricing (e.g., asset management and portfolio analysis, market microstructure, stock-price modeling, fixed-income market, derivative markets, financial systems in emerging markets) accounting (e.g., financial reporting, accounting anomalies, managerial accounting) Curriculum The program is designed to give students a solid foundation in finance, economics, accounting, and econometrics in the first year through coursework. The intensity of the coursework takes into consideration that applicants come from multiple disciplines. To proceed, students take a qualifying exam in the summer of their first year. The second year is dedicated solely to seminar courses, with some covering investments, asset pricing, corporate finance, and accounting. Courses are designed to prepare students for taking on instructor duties in their third year. View the Finance Track curriculum. Faculty Our faculty has published in the most prestigious journals in finance and accounting. Recent publications include articles listed in the FT-50 list of the highest-ranked journals in business, including in Journal of Finance, Journal of Financial Economics, Review of Financial Studies, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Management Science, Journal of Accounting Research, Accounting Review, Journal of Business Ethics, and Journal of International Business Studies. Learn more about the Accounting & Finance faculty. Information Systems for Data Science & Management Track Data analytics has become a critical need in industries ranging from health care and financial services to marketing and government. Leveraging the strengths of the College of Management's faculty, the University of Massachusetts Boston is offering a cutting-edge and flexible doctoral program in this field. Positioned at the intersection of technology, business, and strategy, UMass Boston's Business Administration PhD - Information Systems for Data Science and Management track allows students to have a holistic view of data science and its role in the competition. Students will get exposed to various state-of-art research streams in information systems and data science, with a relative focus on data analytical techniques from a design science perspective and the application and management of data analytics in business settings from an organizational perspective. The program offers students the flexibility to investigate other topics they find interesting in data science and technology fields. Who Should Apply All students with master's degrees who are interested in information technology and data analytics are welcome to apply. Students with degrees in quantitative fields such as statistics, economics, math, computer science, management sciences, information systems, and other related disciplines are particularly encouraged to apply. A master's degree in these related fields is a plus, although not required. Previous full-time working experiences in related positions are also a plus. Impact Rapid increases in the amount of published data results in a data deluge that imposes significant challenges in data analytics. By offering a carefully tailored combination of courses in information technology, applied statistics, and business analytics, our PhD program provides rigorous and in-depth courses of study with emphasis on various research methodologies, tools for data analytics, and relevant academic skill sets involving research design, literature review, theoretical development, empirical validation, and academic writing. Our program also provides students with extensive knowledge in the various emerging research areas in information systems (IS) field through IS research seminars and research collaboration opportunities with faculty members. Academic advisors will help students configure a program of study which includes a rigorous sequence of courses in a variety of research methodologies, theories, and topics. Students will develop theoretical and methodological competencies in a variety of topics in the field of information systems and data science. Students will develop teaching competences through the teaching seminar, GA assignments to support a professor, and independently deliver courses. In addition to course work, students will actively engage in research with faculty members. View the Information Systems for Data Science and Management curriculum. Faculty Research More than a dozen dedicated faculty members are devoted to student learning, with additional faculty serving in supporting roles. They are leaders in their fields who regularly publish scholarly articles in top academic journals. The program involves close, apprentice-like working relationships with faculty members, and students are introduced early to the world of conferences and publishing. Doctoral students are paired with faculty advisors based on their area of interest. This intense mentorship program allows students to learn the crafts of research and teaching in a highly collaborative environment. A sampling of faculty projects includes: cybersecurity analytics for massive communication graphs home health care management for dually diagnosed Individuals with mental and physical health problems characterizing managers' decision making patterns under uncertain and competitive environment business intelligence as an IT-enabled agile and competitive business platform social media, big data, and Innovation: an investigation of the software industry in India strategic use of cloud computing and data assets for sustainable competitive advantage decision modeling applications to areas such as technology development, policy, resource management abysmal behavior in online social networks the role of health IT in hospital acquisitions social influence on Bayesian learning process in post-adoption stage Learn more about faculty and their research. Career Possibilities There are two main career opportunities for the individuals graduated from this program. They can pursue a career in academia as a faculty member or join an organization as a data scientist. In the first case, they can educate other data scientists and conduct state of the art research to be published in peer-reviewed journals. For the second, students can become data scientists who use the acquired knowledge to excel the effectiveness of data collection and analytics in their organization and improve its competitiveness in today’s economy. Organizations and Social Change Track UMass Boston's Business Administration PhD - Organizations and Social Change (OSC) program has gained a strong international reputation for its distinctive focus on issues at the intersection of business and society and its explicit commitment to diverse perspectives, theories, and methodologies. The program examines how business and organizations structure societies, economies, and our identities, sometimes in harmful ways, but also how business and organizations can be engines for positive change. This full-time, on-campus program is led by a high-quality faculty who are committed to supportive supervision and mentoring of students. Students are eligible for four years of financial support and enjoy opportunities to collaborate with faculty on research projects. Graduates of the program, which is primarily designed to train students for academic careers, have secured positions in well-known universities, while others have pursued successful careers in consulting and nonprofits. The program is part of the AACSB-accredited College of Management at UMass Boston. The university is guided by a mission of social justice and community involvement. It is an extraordinary place to learn about the relevance of business and organizations in addressing societal issues. Who Should Apply The Organizations and Social Change program track is designed for students who are interested in pursuing a full-time doctoral program specializing in areas such as: social responsibility and sustainability social entrepreneurship sustainable economic development stakeholder engagement in corporate governance contemporary human resource management, such as diversity and contingent labor cultural and economic impacts of globalization transnational identities of consumers and employees gender equality and organizations multi-sector partnerships for poverty alleviation and development Prospective students with prior degrees in management, sociology, economics, political science, or other relevant areas are encouraged to apply. Most successful applicants have a master’s degree. Prior research experience (e.g., data analysis, literature reviews, academic writing) is highly recommended. Students accepted into the program are offered full tuition credits and a $31,000 stipend to help defray living costs for up to four years. Travel grants annually fund academic conference presentations. View the Organizations and Social Change Track curriculum. Research Doctoral students are paired with faculty advisors based on their area of interest. This intense mentorship program allows students to learn the crafts of research and teaching in a highly collaborative environment. Students are introduced early to academic research and publishing. Current and former PhD students of the OSC track regularly publish in highly regarded journals, typically together with faculty, and have been involved in impactful community projects and action-oriented research. Faculty of the OSC track possess international reputations in their fields and are actively engaged in academic and practice-oriented research, and publishing in highly regarded outlets on inequality, sustainability, social entrepreneurship, and diversity. Their expertise in organizations and social change brings them into close contact with business, entrepreneurs, government agencies, and nonprofits. This year, Professor Maureen Scully was awarded the highly prestigious Joanne Martin Trailblazer Award from the Organization and Management Theory Division of the Academy of Management (2020). She also won the Donald Shephard Endowed Award for Research, College of Management, UMass Boston (2020). Learn more about faculty and their research. Career Possibilities Students in the OSC track will be positioned to pursue academic careers at universities and research institutions. Program graduates have successfully published in highly regarded academic journals and found excellent academic positions at institutions in North America and Europe. The OSC PhD degree has qualified students for faculty positions in various departments, including entrepreneurship, strategy, management, and public affairs. They teach courses in organization theory, strategy, business and society, sustainability, business ethics, and international business. Several graduates have taken leadership positions in nonprofit organizations, research centers, and consulting. Plan Your Education How to Apply Finance Track Applicants need to submit a current résumé or CV, a statement of purpose, a writing sample, three letters of recommendation, official transcripts of all prior academic work, official GMAT or GRE scores, and, if appropriate, an official TOEFL or IELTS score. Provide these materials directly to the Graduate Admissions Office. Writing Sample: Please submit with your application one or two selected samples of prior academic writings. Such writings could include course papers from your master’s program, research papers, conference papers, or other types of manuscripts. Length is not important, but these typically range between 2,000 and 10,000 words. Please select papers written by you (solo-authored) that best showcase your ability to tackle a relevant research topic by using or developing analytical frameworks or theories, referencing other people’s work, and using empirical evidence (if applicable). Information Systems for Data Science and Management Track (ISDS) Statement of purpose At least one writing sample Three (3) letters of recommendation A minimum, cumulative GPA of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale (or international equivalent) in all undergraduate work Organizations and Social Change (OSC) Track Applicants need to submit a current résumé or CV, a statement of purpose, three letters of recommendation, official transcripts of all prior academic work, a writing sample, official GMAT or GRE scores, and, if appropriate an official TOEFL or IELTS score. Statement of Purpose: With your application, please submit a statement of purpose, including a mini-research proposal on an OSC topic that reflects the goals of the program. Your mini- proposal should be about 5 pages long, and it should include the following elements: Why do you want to study for a PhD in Organizations and Social Change A specific research topic/problem and its significance A compelling research question A review of previous work relevant to the research question, i.e. what we know so far The methods you propose (data collection, analytical techniques) to answer your research question A summary of expected results/outcomes, and their potential significance Note that you are not committing to a PhD topic at this point; your goal is to demonstrate your current thinking and capabilities in research. The mini-proposal will help us determine some of your potential interests and your aptitude for doing research. Writing Sample: Please submit with your application one or two selected samples of prior academic writings. Such writings could include course papers from your master’s program, research papers, conference papers, or other types of manuscripts. Length is not important, but these typically range between 2,000 and 10,000 words. Please select papers that are written by you (solo-authored), and which best showcase your ability to tackle a relevant research topic by using or developing analytical frameworks or theories, referencing other people’s work, and using empirical evidence (if applicable). Deadlines & Cost Finance: We are currently not accepting applications for this track. The next admittance for this track will be for Fall 2026. Information Systems for Data Science and Management: February 1 (priority deadline) and February 15 (final deadline) for Fall 2025 Organizations and Social Change (OSC): February 1 (priority deadline) and February 15 (final deadline) for Fall 2025 Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Program Cost Information: Please refer to Cost & Aid - Graduate Students for more information. For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or email bursar@umb.edu . Curriculum - Finance Track Core Courses (6 Credits) BUSADM 700 - Business in Context: Markets, Technologies, Societies 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 775 - Professional Development Workshop - Doctoral Teaching 3 Credit(s) Track Courses (30 Credits) BUSADM 710 - Accounting for Finance I 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 711 - Accounting for Finance II 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 721 - Quantitative Financial Analysis II 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 722 - Cross-Section Analysis of Financial Data 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 723 - Time Series Analysis of Financial Data 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 730 - Seminar in Investment & Asset Valuation 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 731 - Seminar in Financial Economics 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 732 - Seminar in Corporate Finance 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 780 - Advanced Data Mining and Predictive Modeling 3 Credit(s) Electives (9 Credits) Complete three additional BUSADM courses. At least one course must be from below. BUSADM 733 - Advanced Topics in Corporate Finance 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 734 - Topics in Investment Asset Pricing 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 736 - Accounting for Finance III 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 782 - Optimization for Data Science 3 Credit(s) Dissertation Research (12 Credits) BUSADM 777 - Dissertation Seminar - Finance track 3 Credit(s) or BUSADM 899 - Dissertation Research 1-12 Credit(s) Curriculum - Information Systems for Data Science and Management Core Courses (6 Credits) BUSADM 700 - Business in Context: Markets, Technologies, Societies 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 775 - Professional Development Workshop - Doctoral Teaching 3 Credit(s) Track Courses (27 Credits) BUSADM 740 - Information Systems Theory I: Behavioral and Group Perspectives 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 741 - Information Systems Theory II: Organizational and Economic Perspectives 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 742 - Regression Analysis 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 743 - Decision and Risk Analysis 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 744 - Quantitative Research Methods in Information Systems 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 745 - Multivariate Statistics 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 780 - Advanced Data Mining and Predictive Modeling 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 782 - Optimization for Data Science 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 785 - Big Data: Management, Analytics, and Applications 3 Credit(s) Core Electives (9 Credits) Complete three additional courses chosen with faculty advisor approval. Dissertation Research (12 Credits) BUSADM 899 - Dissertation Research 1-12 Credit(s) Curriculum - Organizations and Social Change Track Core Courses (6 Credits) BUSADM 700 - Business in Context: Markets, Technologies, Societies 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 775 - Professional Development Workshop - Doctoral Teaching 3 Credit(s) Track Courses (18 Credits) BUSADM 750 - Foundations of Organization Theory 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 751 - Contemporary Organization Theory 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 754 - Introduction to Organizations & Social Change 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 770 - Introduction to Research Methods for the Social Sciences 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 771 - Contemporary Research Practice on Management, Organizations, and Social Change 3 Credit(s) BUSADM 891 - Dissertation Proposal Course 3-6 Credit(s) Electives (18 Credits) Complete six additional courses chosen with approval of the faculty advisor. Dissertation Research (12 Credits) BUSADM 899 - Dissertation Research 1-12 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Program Requirements - Finance Track Complete a minimum of 57 credits from at least sixteen courses including two core courses, ten track courses, three electives, and twelve credits of dissertation research. Doctoral candidacy: Pass qualifying exams at the end of the first and second years. Dissertation: Compose and defend a dissertation based on original research. Project: Complete a summer project. Statute of limitations: Eight years. Program Requirements - Information Systems for Data Science and Management Track Complete a minimum of 54 credits from at least 15 courses including two core courses, nine track courses, three electives, and twelve credits of dissertation research. Doctoral candidacy: Pass a qualifying exam taken at the end of the second year. Dissertation: Compose and defend a dissertation based on original research. Project: Complete a summer project. Statute of limitations: Eight years. Program Requirements - Organizations and Social Change Track Complete a minimum of 54 credits from at least 15 courses including two core courses, six track courses, six electives, and twelve credits of dissertation research. Doctoral candidacy: Pass a qualifying exam by the end of the second year. Dissertation: Compose and defend a dissertation based on original research. Project: Complete a summer project after the first year. Statute of limitations: Eight years. Learning Outcomes As a candidate in the Business Administration PhD, you will: Develop a strong foundation in the theories and concepts of business administration Acquire advanced research skills to design and conduct original research in the field of business administration Build the ability to analyze complex business problems and develop innovative solutions Develop the capacity to effectively communicate research findings through scholarly writing and presentations Learning Outcomes: OSC Track The OSC PhD track will prepare students to pursue academic and research careers and have a broader impact on the world by engaging with the media and organizational practice. Students will learn how to: Apply theoretical frameworks to understand business and organizational practices, as well as their economic, social, cultural, environmental, and political impacts Conduct qualitative and quantitative research and identify problems and solutions Critique policy and articulate recommendations on issues at the interface of business, government, and critical social issues Translate research into more practice-oriented articles, media coverage, and organizational interventions Contact Graduate Program Director Chi Wan (Finance) Chi.Wan [at] umb.edu Graduate Program Director Ehsan Elahi (Information Systems for Data Science and Management) Ehsan.Elahi [at] umb.edu (617) 287-7881 Graduate Program Director Silvia Dorado-Banacloche (Organizations and Social Change) Silvia.Dorado [at] umb.edu (617) 287-7860 Finance Faculty Mehran Azimi, Assistant Professor of Finance Arindam Bandopadhyaya, Professor of Finance, Chair of Accounting and Finance Department Atreya Chakraborty, Professor of Finance, Director of Partnerships and PhD Program Mine Ertugrul, Associate Professor of Finance James L. Grant, Associate Professor of Finance Tyler J. Hull, Assistant Professor of Finance Aditya Kashikar, Assistant Professor of Finance Rui Li, Associate Professor of Financial Economics Lucia Silva-Gao, Associate Professor of Finance Chi Wan, Associate Professor of Finance Yijia (Eddie) Zhao, Associate Professor of Finance Accounting Faculty Ting Chen, Assistant Professor of Accounting Thomas J. Hogan, Associate Professor of Accounting Robert Kim, Assistant Professor of Accounting Sangwan Kim, Associate Professor of Accounting Jay Junghun Lee, Associate Professor of Accounting KoEun Park, Associate Professor of Accounting Yong-Chul Shin, Associate Professor of Accounting Surjit Tinaikar, Associate Professor of Accounting Kiran Verma, Associate Professor of Accounting Wan-Ting (Alexandra) Wu, Associate Professor of Accounting Xiaolu Xu, Associate Professor of Accounting Kun Yu, Associate Professor of Accounting OSC Faculty Alessia Contu, Chair, Department of Management; Professor of Management Edward J. Carberry, Associate Professor of Management Silvia Dorado-Banacloche, Associate Professor of Management Samantha E. Erskine, Assistant Professor of Management Pacey C. Foster, Associate Professor of Management Janice Goldman, Senior Lecturer II in Management Mohsin Habib, Associate Professor of Management Marc Lavine, Associate Professor of Management David Levy, Professor of Management Benyamin B. Lichtenstein, Associate Professor of Entrepreneurship and Management J. Keith Motley, Professor of Management Jared M. Poole, Assistant Professor of Management Maureen A. Scully, Professor of Management Vesela Veleva, Senior Lecturer in Management ISDS Faculty Ramakrishna Ayyagari, Associate Professor of Management Information Systems Pratyush Bharati, Associate Professor of Management Information Systems Roger Blake, Associate Chair, Management Science & Information Systems; Associate Professor of Management Information Systems Kui Du, Assistant Professor of Management Science and Information Systems Ehsan Elahi, Associate Professor of Management Science Davood Golmohammadi, Associate Professor of Management Science Shan Jiang, Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems Jeffrey Keisler, Professor of Management Information Systems Jonathan Kim, Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems Jean-Pierre Kuilboer, Associate Professor of Management Science and Information Systems Daniel Lee, Associate Professor of Management Information Systems Josephine Namayanja, Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems Romilla Syed, Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems Peng Xu, Chair of Management Science and Information Systems; Associate Professor of Management Information Systems Wei Zhang, Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems Accounting & Finance Department Learn more about UMass Boston's Department of Accounting & Finance, our research and our faculty. Explore the Department of Accounting & Finance College of Management Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Management. Explore College of Management Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Attend an Info Session Start Your Application Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms