Training & Education - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Training & Education Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Training & Education As federal regulations, rules, and norms change and shift, it is important for faculty, staff and students to keep well informed about federal guidelines around research and sponsored projects administration. The topics mentioned below will assist you with learning best practices for pre-award and post-award administration, research compliance and research development. Please send any questions to orsptraining@umb.edu - we are here to help! Grant Forum dates and material can be found on the Grant Forum page. Kuali Training dates and materials can be found on the Kuali page. SUMMIT for Sponsored Projects Training Sessions SUMMIT is UMass Boston's fiscal reporting tool and is essential for effectively managing your sponsored projects. Sign up for a 1-hour session using the links below: Thursday, September 26 at 2 p.m. Tuesday, October 29 at 3 p.m. Suggested Trainings Conflict of Interest UMass Boston uses the CITI Program Conflict of Interest (COI) Basic course to satisfy training requirements associated with the U.S. Public Health Service (PHS) regulations on financial conflicts of interest. This course is required for key personnel who receive funding from a PHS agency, including the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Read more » Export Control Log in to CITI Program and take the Export Control course to get an introduction to export compliance, as well as the different roles and responsibilities key individuals and departments have across organizations that need to be aware of and adhere to export compliance regulations. Read more » Responsible Conduct of Research The National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Science Foundation (NSF), and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) require certain categories of researchers to receive Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) training. UMass Boston uses the CITI Program RCR course to meet these training requirements. Log in to get started. Read more » SUMMIT for Sponsored Programs UMass uses the SUMMIT reporting tool to deliver PeopleSoft data quickly and easily. The Sponsored Activity section within the FDM: Department Management Dashboard is an important resource for managing your sponsored projects. The document linked here in this section details how to use the SUMMIT Reporting tool to effectively manage your sponsored funding - SUMMIT for Sponsored Programs Research Development Writing Guides (from Northeastern University) Read more » National Research Mentoring Network (NRMN) Five institutions were awarded funds to develop a national network to provide evidence-based and culturally-aware mentorship, grantsmanship training and other professional development, networking opportunities, and resources to mentors and their trainees across the biomedical sciences. Programming is available to support scientists throughout their career, from undergraduate students to senior faculty members. Read more » Research Administration/Research Integrity Networks National Council of University Research Administrators (NCURA) NCURAs mission: To advance the profession of research administration through education and professional development programs, the sharing of knowledge and experiences, and the fostering a diverse, collegial and respected global community. Read more » Society of Research Administrators (SRA) International SRA International's mission: To develop, define and promote international best practices in research management, administration, knowledge transfer and growth of the research enterprise. Read more » Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research (PRIM&R) PRIM&R's mission: To advance the highest ethical standards in the conduct of biomedical, behavioral, and social science research. Accomplished through education, membership services, professional certification, public policy initiatives and community building. Read more » Informational Presentations Research Orientation – conducting research at UMass Boston Read more » NCURA YouTube Presentations Read more » Summary of Audits, Settlements, and Investigations Related to Sponsored Programs Read more » Protecting Research Subjects and Avoiding Research Misconduct [DHHS video] Read more » UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms