Kellee.Siegfried - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Kellee.Siegfried Kellee Siegfried-Harris Department: Biology Title: Associate Professor Location: ISC Floor 05 Phone: 617.287.6671 Send Email Website Area of Expertise Developmental Biology, Genetics Degrees PhD, Genetics, University of Wisconsin Madison BS, Genetics, University of California Davis Professional Publications & Contributions Bowen, M.E., K. Henke, K.R. Siegfried, M.L. Warman, M.P. Harris (2012). Efficient mapping and cloning of zebrafish mutants by low coverage whole genome sequencing. Genetics, 190(3), 1017-24. Liew, W.C., R. Bartfai, Z. Lim, R. Sreenivasan, K.R. Siegfried, L. Orban (2012). The zebrafish has polygenic sex determination. PLOS ONE, 7(4), e34397. Saito, K., KR Siegfried, C. Nüsslein-Volhard, N. Sakai (2011). Isolation and cytogenetic characterization of zebrafish meiotic prophase I mutants. Developmental Dynamics, 240, 1779-1792. Siegfried, K.R. (2011). Molecular and chromosomal aspects of sex determination. In: Farrell A.P. (ed.) Encyclopedia of Fish Physiology: from genome to environment. Elsevier. Siegfried, K.R. (2010). In search of determinants: gene expression during gonadal sex differentiation. Journal of Fish Biology 76, 1879-1902. Siegfried, K.R., C. Nüsslein-Volhard (2008). Germ line control of female sex determination in zebrafish. Developmental Biology, 324(2), 277-287. Additional Information Research Interests The Siegfried Lab Germ Cell Development The germ line is a unique tissue in that it is the only cell type in the body that contributes to the next generation. The Siegfried Lab uses the zebrafish to study the genetic regulation underlying germ cell development. We have isolated a collection of zebrafish mutants with defects in various aspects of germ cell development. These range from early germ cell survival, meiotic defects, and formation of germ cell tumors. Our ongoing work on these mutant lines has led to the discovery of genes that are relevant to human infertility and reproductive function. Through further analysis of these mutants, we aim to uncover the mechanisms by which these genes function in germ cell development. Sex Determination There is a vast diversity of methods by which sex is determined in animals. Despite this, there is a common set of genes that seem to regulate sexual fates within vertebrates. In humans, mutations disrupting these genes can lead to Disorders of Sexual Development (DSD). DSDs can consist of a broad range of defects that may lead to problems with endocrine function, sexual identity, infertility and susceptibility to gonadal cancers. Zebrafish and humans share many common genes that regulate this process. To understand the genetic regulation of sexual development, the Siegfried lab is studying sex-determination and gonadal sex-differentiation in the zebrafish. To this end, we are using both mutant analysis and genomic approaches to identify genes that regulate sexual development in zebrafish. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms