Contact - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Gaston Institute Contact Menu menu Menu About Canala Contact Join Our Mailing List Core Programs In the Media Partners Publications Research Support Us Contact Us The Mauricio Gastón Institute is located at the University of Massachusetts Boston campus, on the 10th floor of the Healey Library. Our hours of operation are Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Healey Library, 10th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 Phone: 617.287.5790 Fax: 617.287.5788 E-mail: gastoninstitute@umb.edu Join Us Join our network and receive announcements about new releases, our newsletter, invitations to events and other updates. For reporters Any media inquiry must be addressed to Fabian Torres-Ardila and/or Phillip Granberry . The Gastón Institute aims to be a resource for media outlets. Our work with media aims to expand knowledge and understanding of the Latino community and of public policy issues that are vital to our community. Media groups are encouraged to contact us at any time. We can be helpful to your work in the following ways: Developing a Story Concept: if you need background knowledge on a particular community or public policy issue, we can direct you to research and sources that may be helpful to your work. Finding Experts: our research team is available for interviews on their areas of expertise.  If we don’t directly cover the area you are interested in, we can tap our broad network of partners and put you in contact with an expert on the topic. Data: our Demography project provides a wealth of demographic data on Latino in Massachusetts.  If you are looking for specific information, we can point you to the correct sources. Deadlines:  If you are on deadline, please let us know so that we prioritize your request. Parking map Plan ahead and find out where to park in the campus. Google directions Check directions to our location using public transportation or your own. Read More The Mauricio Gastón Institute for Latino Community Development and Public Policy Healey Library, 10th Floor University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125-3393 617.287.5790 Maps & Directions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms