About Us & Contact Info - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Housing & Dining Off Campus About Us & Contact Info Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining On Campus Meal Plans Off Campus About Us & Contact Info Community Ambassadors FAQ Off Campus Living Short Term Bridge Housing Tenant Education Course Policies & Forms Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students About Us & Contact Info Our Mission Off-Campus Living promotes student success by empowering off-campus and commuter students to become responsible tenants and engaged community members. Our Vision Off-Campus Living aspires to be a good-natured, service-oriented team that delivers innovative resources and education concerning the off-campus and commuter environment. Our Values Civility Diversity Good humor Innovation Service Teamwork Trust Our Team John Sears John Sears is Assistant Director of the Office of Off-Campus Living. He joined UMass Boston in 2018. John’s work experience has included roles in the private sector/industry, service in the Army, and the Georgia and Massachusetts Army National Guards, and over 20 years of teaching and administration in higher education and student affairs. John also teaches a Connected Futures class for student veterans and advises the UMass Boston Student Veteran Center. Ni Tran Hi! My name is Ni and I’m a sophomore. I’m a Psychology major. I’ve lived in the Dorchester/Roxbury area my whole life, so I know my way around. I’ve joined the OCL team this year. In my free time, I like watching movies a lot. Nowadays I’ve been into pretty cool animated movies like Ghost in the Shell (1995) and Paprika (2006). Sara Elbrolosy Hello everyone! My name is Sara Elbrolosy, and I'm a senior at UMB majoring in International Relations with a double minor in Arabic studies and Psychology. I was born and raised in Saudi Arabia, but my hometown is Alexandria, Egypt. My interests include dancing, painting, traveling, and anything related to the beach! This is my first year working as a CA and look forward to meeting everyone. Smriti Kovelamudi Hello, I am Smriti Kovelamudi pursuing MS in Business Analytics in UMass Boston.  I am originally from Andhra Pradesh, India. This is my first year as a CA and I am really excited to start a new journey. My interests include travelling, movies, food, hanging out with friends and cooking. Tashawnee Gaines 3rd year CA Major: Biology (Pre-Med) Classification: 4th-year Undergraduate Interests: Laying in bed and watching TV, and stepping for Broke Phi Broke (UMass Boston stepping team) Off-Campus Living Campus Center, 3rd Floor, Suite 3300 617.287.6373 offcampus@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms