- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 From Beaconville to Tokyo: UMass Boston Track Alum Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications From Beaconville to Tokyo: UMass Boston Track Alum Wadeline Jonathas to Compete In 2021 Olympic Games 06/22/2021 |
    Dave Walberg It seems like yesterday when then-freshman Wadeline Jonathas first stepped into the track and field office at UMass Boston. Little did anyone know at the time, just five years later, her meteoric rise would reach unprecedented heights. “ We're extremely proud of Wade, what she accomplished here... and most importantly how she carries herself with dignity and grace. ” On June 19, just after 10 p.m. EST, Jonathas sprinted her way to a spot in the 2021 Tokyo Olympics as a member of Team USA. “We are extremely proud of Wade, what she accomplished here at UMass Boston, making the Olympic Team and most importantly how she carries herself with dignity and grace," said Interim Director of Athletics Darlene Gordon . "Much success in Tokyo...Go Beacon!” In her two years studying and competing at UMass Boston, Jonathas, who hails from Gonaïves, Haiti, wasted little time becoming one of the most dominant track athletes in the history of Division III.  She became a nine-time individual national champion, a 13-time All-American, and led the Beacons to an indoor and outdoor national track and field championship in 2018. She earned enough points on her own at the 2018 NCAA indoor meet to secure the team championship for the Beacons. Jonathas also competed in Division I as a junior at the University of South Carolina. In her lone year with the Lady Gamecocks, she was a national champion in the indoor 4x4 and the outdoor 400, a three-time All-American, and won both the 4x2 and 4x4 at the historic Penn Relays. She also was a two-time sliver medalist at the Southern Eastern Conference Championship meets. Facing some of the top sprinters in the country, and with her unmatched work ethic, Jonathas caught the attention of scouts and sponsors from across the globe. Recently, Jonathas has traveled the world competing against the best-of-the-best.  Her hard work and determination would pay off as she qualified for the U.S. Olympic Team trials.  Competing at one of the most impressive track facilities on the planet, Tracktown USA, Jonathas showed the world what she was made of. Like a seasoned veteran, Jonathas outdid herself in each of the two preliminary meets.  Then on Sunday evening, Jonathas cemented her place as one of the best in the world.  With a third-place finish and a time of 50.03 seconds, Jonathas secured her trip to Tokyo, where she will proudly represent USA. Jonathas, who stands on a platform that only a few will ever reach in their lifetime, has forever left her mark on Beaconville not just by her unmatched talent, but with her quiet, infectious smile and her unbridled determination. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms