Community Mediation Center Grant Program - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration Public Programs Community Mediation Center Grant Program Menu menu Menu Public Programs Affordable Housing Program Agricultural Mediation Program Community Mediation Center Grant Program Housing Mediation Program Parent Mediation Program Public Deliberation Program Re-Entry Mediation Program Youth Program Research Services Staff Teaching & Training Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Initiatives Community Mediation Center Grant Program The statutory MA Community Mediation Center Grant Program (CMC Grant Program), created in 2012 through adoption of G.L. Ch. 75, s. 47, is administered by MOPC to advance the public mission of community mediation in the Commonwealth. The program grew out of the Legislative Study: A Framework to Strengthen Massachusetts Community Mediation as a Cost-Effective Public Service , conducted in 2011. Through this Grant Program, MOPC allocates state operational funding to qualified community mediation centers located across the state that provide free or lost cost mediation and other conflict resolution services to their communities. Community Mediation Mediation is a widely practiced conflict resolution and prevention approach that has historical roots across cultures. In the United States today, community mediation is an established local conflict resolution resource that provides a confidential forum for community members to directly resolve conflicts with one another with the help of an impartial mediator. If all parties are interested and willing to engage in the process, any issue is suitable for mediation, including family, neighborhood, business, organizational, municipal, and others giving people control over the outcome of the process. Mediation services are provided by trained staff and volunteer mediators and are available to all. Community Mediation Centers Through their community-centered service model, centers increase access to justice; build community capacity, relationships, and social capital; and serve as the primary trainers of mediators in both the private and public sectors. MOPC’s unrestricted operational and performance-based funding allows centers to continue to provide these benefits in a sustainable way by supporting the stability of center operations. This organizational stability further reinforces centers’ capacity to grow their programs and infrastructure and leverage additional investments. Grant Program Goals Serve: Provide access to conflict resolution for all Massachusetts residents by promoting community mediation as an affordable public service and by supporting community and organizational partnerships statewide. Stabilize: Provide a consistent funding source for centers with performance based public accountability to promote the stability of center operations. Sustain: Make public investment in community mediation centers that can be leveraged to further diversify funding and create long-term center sustainability. Funding Model The funding model for the operating grants under the CMC Grant Program has three components that are assessed by an independent Grant Review Committee and MOPC’s executive director. The first component addresses how a center is meeting the qualifying "Twelve-Point Model" of community mediation. This set of standards serves as the basis for defining community mediation in MA. Centers that confirm alignment with the twelve-point model qualify for a baseline grant awarded in equal amounts across all funded centers. The second component assesses a center’s performance with the aim of encouraging work towards continually increasing the range, quality and accessibility of conflict resolution services provided to communities. Centers submit data on caseload activity and self-defined SMART goals in targeted areas under the Twelve-Point Model framework. The performance awards are based on performance levels in both areas and vary across centers depending on their performance levels. The third component requires centers to raise a cash match for their total operating grant award. The amount of the cash match is determined based on the level of the center’s caseload activity. The purpose of this grant component is to ensure center sustainability through diversification of funding. Excellence and Capacity Building Since the CMC Grant Program’s inception, MOPC and the state-funded centers have been collaborating on statewide community mediation excellence and capacity-building initiatives, with the joint benefits of developing quality standards and providing a platform to attract additional funding. Efforts have involved creating shared learning objectives, sharing resources, sponsoring trainings for mediators and staff in new program areas (e.g., re-entry, housing, municipal) and additional conflict resolution methodologies (e.g., restorative justice, conflict coaching), and launching network-wide learning communities to support high quality program services and project grants (e.g., youth, DEI). Most recently, MOPC launched a trainer development project to build the skills of center trainers and the training capacity of the community mediation network. Evaluation & Research MOPC evaluates the performance of the community mediation centers to ensure effective implementation, measurable impact, and a return on investment of public funding and reports annually on the Grant Program performance to the Governor, Legislature, and the Trial Court. Data collection and reporting is managed by MOPC using a unified database deployed by the centers. For more information, see Research & Evaluation . Grant Application Request Process The Grant Application Request (GAR) process is open periodically subject to the availability of funding for the CMC Grant Program through MA state budget appropriations.  If a center that currently does not receive grant support wishes to apply for funding, they should contact MOPC for information. The CMC Grant Program grant-making process is intended for community mediation centers who provide free or low-cost services through volunteer mediators and can demonstrate that their mission and operations are aligned with the Twelve-Point Model. Alignment with the Twelve-Point Model is a pre-requisite for funding qualification. MOPC Contact Essie Martsinkovsky, Program Manager, esther.martsinkovsky@umb.edu or 617-287-3178 Connect with currently funded community mediation centers: Berkshire County Regional Housing Authority: https://bcrha.com Cape Cod Dispute Resolution Center: https://capemediation.org Collaborative Resolutions Group: www.collaborativeresolutionsgroup.org Community Dispute Settlement Center: www.communitydispute.org Family Services of Central MA Mediation: https://www.sevenhills.org/programs/mediation Greater Brockton Center for Dispute Resolution: https://www.gbcdr.org Middlesex Community College Law Center: https://www.middlesex.mass.edu/lawcenter/mediation.aspx Mediation Services of North Central MA: https://mediationncm.org Metropolitan Mediation Services: https://www.brooklinecenter.org/services/metropolitan-mediation-services/ Martha's Vineyard Mediation Program: www.mvmediation.org MetroWest Mediation Services: www.metrowestmediationservices.org The Resolution Center: www.resolutionnorthshore.org Other Resources For more information on the MA network of Community Mediation Centers see Resolution Massachusetts website: https://www.resolutionma.org/our-centers . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms