Meet The Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Urban Scholars Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Urban Scholars Meet The Staff Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Talent Search Program Upward Bound Upward Bound Math-Science Urban Scholars About Program Academics Admissions Alumni Employment Meet The Staff Partners Directions for Student Potential Pathways & Multilingual Programs English Language Program Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Meet the Staff Suamy Ventura , Program Director Suamy Ventura has been working with Pre-Collegiate Programs at UMass Boston since she was an undergraduate student. Her professional experience expands over a decade across several programs, including the Health Career Opportunities Program, Urban Scholars, and Upward Bound. She has been dedicated to serving talented and gifted students of low socioeconomic backgrounds from several Boston Public Schools in the area. Her love for helping underprivileged students has given her the desire to continue working in the field of education. As a first-generation college-bound student, she understands what it takes to be on the right track for a successful college career. Suamy graduated from UMass Boston with a BA in psychology and a MEd in school counseling. Suamy is currently the director of TRiO Upward Bound and Urban Scholars. Joye Thaller , Associate Director Joye Thaller has an extensive background in STEM education, most recently as the STEM Coordinator at Bunker Hill Community College, where she managed the STEM Starter Academy grant. Previously, she taught math and pre-engineering in Boston Public Schools and then was a math education researcher at TERC. She is excited to bring her experience to Urban Scholars and to help students gain access to STEM careers. Lei Douglas , College Access Coordinator Lei is a student success advocate and has been in the education field for over 10 years. Her experience includes student support via Student Affairs (Residential Life), college advising, and diversity, equity, inclusion & belonging (DEIB), as well as program management. Her passions include mentoring, advocacy, and providing quality care and support to students and the campus community by eliminating barriers and systems that hinder student success and persistence. She enjoys community-building with students and colleagues alike to foster genuine relationships that promote achievement and advancement both inside and outside of higher education. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms