Latin American & Iberian Studies BA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Latin American & Iberian Studies BA Home Academics Majors & Programs Latin American & Iberian Studies BA Request Info Loading... As a student in the Latin American and Iberian Studies program, you will immerse yourself in the rich cultural tapestry of these regions. This program offers a comprehensive exploration of Latin American and Iberian languages, histories, literature, and beyond, equipping you with a deep understanding and global perspective. You will also have the opportunity to curate your experience with three different tracks: language, culture, and society; translation studies; or Latin American studies. You will emerge from this program prepared to: Communicate proficiently, using all four skills (i.e. speaking, listening, reading and writing), in academic, professional, and everyday settings in the language that is required by your selected track Produce scholarly work in dialogue with academic fields such as anthropology, history, and geography Apply pre-professional translation skills to a variety of documents in both directions, Spanish to English and English to Spanish Assess a variety of theoretical approaches to Translation Studies in order to adopt adequate methodologies for the translation of a variety of documents How to Apply Apply for Admission Please review the first-year and transfer apply pages for important information about application requirements, deadlines, and application status check. Apply as a First-Year Student Apply as a Transfer Student Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students Deadlines and Cost Early action deadline: November 1; Regular Decision Deadline: June 15 Financing Your Education Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Boston’s diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aid—providing access to an education that’s exceptional and affordable. Click below to learn more about financial aid opportunities and deadlines. Financial Aid Deadlines & Application Process Scholarships for First-Year & Transfer Students For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Curriculum Students must select a major track from Language, Culture, and Society; Translation Studies; or Latin American Studies. Language proficiency: Students in the major must demonstrate intermediate proficiency in Spanish or Portuguese. GPA: A minimum GPA of 2.75 is required for all courses applied toward the major. Pass/fail: No courses taken pass/fail may be applied toward the major. Residency: At least five courses used for the major must be completed at UMass Boston. Course reuse: No more than one course may be shared between major tracks. The major in Latin American and Iberian Studies features three tracks: Language, Culture, and Society Translation Studies Latin American Studies All tracks require the completion of 12 courses (36 credits), including a common core of three required courses. Language, Culture, and Society Track The Language, Culture, and Society Track offers students an opportunity to advance in the mastery of the Spanish language and become adept in reading, interpreting, and analyzing cultural production in specific, social, historical, and political contexts. The multidisciplinary approach of this track supports student success by allowing them to hone a number of transferable skills, such as the ability to question and examine representation of events, to maintain multiple perspectives, and to exercise critical thought. All of these skills are key competencies of the university’s General Education Program and also constitute the fundamental goals of a Liberal Arts education. The completion of this track will provide students with the linguistic and cultural competency to be successful in today’s transnational world. Students specializing in this track may consider career options in education, counseling, journalism, international relations, trade, management, law, health care, and public policy, as well as higher degrees in the humanities and social sciences. The track also offers courses in language, culture, and society that are mandatory for students interested in teaching Spanish. Track Requirements Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including three core courses, four language courses, four advanced 300-level courses, and one advanced 400-level course. Students in this track are strongly encouraged to study abroad. With department approval, the teaching practicum may be substituted for two of the 300-level courses for those in the teacher preparation program. Course Requirements Core Courses (9 credits) Take three courses from the list below. LATAM 101 - Latin America: Contemporary Society and Culture 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 262L - Latin American, Iberian, and Afro-Luso-Brazilian Literatures in Translation 3 Credit(s) or LATAM 262L - Latin American, Iberian, and Afro-Luso-Brazilian Literatures in Translation 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 352 - History of Spanish-American Literature 3 Credit(s) LATAM 360 - Language and Power in the Americas 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 320 - Varieties of Spanish in the Americas 3 Credit(s) Language Courses (12 Credits) Take four courses from the list below. SPAN 230 - Spanish Composition and Conversation I 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 280 - Spanish for Heritage Speakers 3 Credit(s) SPAN 289 - Writing for Heritage Speakers of Spanish 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 301 - Adv Rdg,Wrtg &Spkng 3 Credit(s) SPAN 304 - Spanish for Majors and Minors 3 Credit(s) SPAN 316 - Advanced Spanish Grammar 3 Credit(s) 300-Level Courses (12 Credits) Take four courses from the list below. PORT 375L - Afro-Luso-Brazilian Cultures 3 Credit(s) SPAN 352 - History of Spanish-American Literature 3 Credit(s) SPAN 362 - Spanish-American Short Story 3 Credit(s) SPAN 380 - Topics in Latin American, Iberian, and Afro-Luso-Brazilian Studies 3 Credit(s) 400-Level Course (3 Credits) Take one course from the list below. SPAN 432 - The World of Don Quixote 3 Credit(s) SPAN 452 - The Practice of Autobiography in Spanish and Latin-American Culture 3 Credit(s) SPAN 454L - Argentina 3 Credit(s) SPAN 478 - Independent Study 1-3 Credit(s) or SPAN 479 - Independent Study 1-3 Credit(s) SPAN 490L - Internship Course in Latin American and Iberian Studies 3 Credit(s) SPAN 491 - Honors Thesis 3-6 Credit(s) Translation Studies Track The demand for well-trained translators is rapidly growing in the world. The Translation Studies Track provides pre-professional training in the theory and practice of translation for students who are interested in translation or wish to acquire translation as ancillary skills to be used in many professions such as commerce, health services, social services, international relations, management, etc. The track is designed for students who are proficient in Spanish and English. The Translation Track covers the areas of development of technical vocabulary (legal, medical, business, technical), written translation and/or interpretation. In addition to translation courses, students take four language courses, two foundational courses, and two advanced courses (400 level) to promote advanced reading and interpretation skills. Track Requirements Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including four core courses, four language courses, three translation courses, and one advanced elective course. This track is designed for students who are proficient in Spanish and English. Course Requirements Core Courses (12 Credits) Take four courses from the list below. LATAM 101 - Latin America: Contemporary Society and Culture 3 Credit(s) LATAM 160 - Building Language Justice: Translation, Migration, and Linguistic Human Rights 3 Credit(s) LATAM 262L - Latin American, Iberian, and Afro-Luso-Brazilian Literatures in Translation 3 Credit(s) LATAM 305 - The Caribbean: Culture and Society 3 Credit(s) LATAM 360 - Language and Power in the Americas 3 Credit(s) SPAN 262L - Latin American, Iberian, and Afro-Luso-Brazilian Literatures in Translation 3 Credit(s) SPAN 320 - Varieties of Spanish in the Americas 3 Credit(s) SPAN 352 - History of Spanish-American Literature 3 Credit(s) SPAN 362 - Spanish-American Short Story 3 Credit(s) SPAN 364 - Spanish-American Essay 3 Credit(s) SPAN 380 - Topics in Latin American, Iberian, and Afro-Luso-Brazilian Studies 3 Credit(s) Language Courses (12 Credits) Take four courses from the list below. SPAN 230 - Spanish Composition and Conversation I 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 280 - Spanish for Heritage Speakers 3 Credit(s) SPAN 289 - Writing for Heritage Speakers of Spanish 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 301 - Adv Rdg,Wrtg &Spkng 3 Credit(s) SPAN 304 - Spanish for Majors and Minors 3 Credit(s) SPAN 316 - Advanced Spanish Grammar 3 Credit(s) Translation Courses (9 Credits) Take the three courses listed below. SPAN 317 - Introduction to Translation Studies (Spanish/English) 3 Credit(s) SPAN 333 - Intermediate Translation Spanish/English 3 Credit(s) SPAN 401 - Advanced Translation: History, Theory and Technique 3 Credit(s) Advanced Course (3 Credits) Take one course from the list below. SPAN 403 - Advanced Translation: Applied Technique 3 Credit(s) SPAN 432 - The World of Don Quixote 3 Credit(s) SPAN 452 - The Practice of Autobiography in Spanish and Latin-American Culture 3 Credit(s) SPAN 454L - Argentina 3 Credit(s) SPAN 478 - Independent Study 1-3 Credit(s) or SPAN 479 - Independent Study 1-3 Credit(s) SPAN 490L - Internship Course in Latin American and Iberian Studies 3 Credit(s) SPAN 491 - Honors Thesis 3-6 Credit(s) Latin American Studies Track Track Requirements Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including three core courses, one foundational course, three intermediate courses, four advanced 300-level courses, and one advanced 400-level course. Native speakers of Spanish must also obtain intermediate proficiency in Portuguese. Native speakers of Portuguese must also obtain intermediate Spanish proficiency. Students in this track are strongly encouraged to study abroad. Course Requirements Core Courses (9 credits) Take three courses from the list below. LATAM 101 - Latin America: Contemporary Society and Culture 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 262L - Latin American, Iberian, and Afro-Luso-Brazilian Literatures in Translation 3 Credit(s) or LATAM 262L - Latin American, Iberian, and Afro-Luso-Brazilian Literatures in Translation 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 352 - History of Spanish-American Literature 3 Credit(s) LATAM 360 - Language and Power in the Americas 3 Credit(s) or SPAN 320 - Varieties of Spanish in the Americas 3 Credit(s) Foundational Course (3 Credits) LATAM 255L - Gods and Slaves: Latin America before 1800 3 Credit(s) or LATAM 256L - Skyscrapers and Shantytowns: Latin America since 1800 3 Credit(s) Intermediate Courses (9 Credits) Take three courses from the list below. LATAM 205L - Latin American Film 3 Credit(s) LATAM 210G - Food, Culture, and Society in Latin America 3 Credit(s) LATAM 270 - Human Rights in Latin America 3 Credit(s) 300-Level Courses (12 Credits) Take four courses from the list below. LATAM 303 - Reform and Revolution in Latin America 3 Credit(s) LATAM 360 - Language and Power in the Americas 3 Credit(s) LATAM 375L - Afro-Luso-Brazilian Cultures 3 Credit(s) SPAN 301 - Adv Rdg,Wrtg &Spkng 3 Credit(s) SPAN 320 - Varieties of Spanish in the Americas 3 Credit(s) 400-Level Course (3 Credits) Take one course from the list below. LATAM 454L - Argentina 3 Credit(s) LATAM 478 - Independent Study 1-3 Credit(s) or LATAM 479 - Independent Study 1-3 Credit(s) LATAM 490L - Internship Course in Latin American and Iberian Studies 3 Credit(s) Contact Latin American and Iberian Studies University of Massachusetts Boston McCormack Hall, 4th Floor, Room 618 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 617.287.7550 Latin American & Iberian Studies Learn more about UMass Boston's Latin American & Iberian Studies department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Latin American & Iberian Studies College of Liberal Arts Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Liberal Arts. Explore the College of Liberal Arts Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms