- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 UMass Boston Physics Major Earns Prestigious Goldw Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Physics Major Earns Prestigious Goldwater Scholarship 04/06/2021 |
    DeWayne Lehman Third Straight Year UMass Boston Students Receive National Recognition “ I am proud to see our students achieve at the highest level, and am grateful for our faculty who guide them toward success. ” UMass Boston junior Sarah True has received the prestigious Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship . This is the third year in a row that UMass Boston students have been named Goldwater Scholars; four students have received the honor. The Goldwater Scholarship is given annually to college sophomores and juniors who demonstrate excellence in natural science, engineering, and mathematics. This year it was awarded to 410 students across the country out of 1,256 nominations. “I congratulate Sarah True on receiving this highly prestigious scholarship and national recognition,” said UMass Boston Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco. “I am proud to see our students achieve at the highest level, and am grateful for our faculty who guide them toward success.” True, of Newburyport, is a physics major with a computer science minor. She plans to continue her studies after graduation to pursue a PhD in computational physics, with a goal of conducting “research in quantum physics and expanding upon the ways that computer science can be used to advance our understanding of how nature behaves at the quantum level.” “It is truly an honor to be recognized alongside such incredible candidates,” True said. “I cannot express enough how grateful I am for the support of UMass Boston faculty and the invaluable research opportunities I have had access to as an undergraduate. I have had the pleasure of spending the last year conducting research on entanglement complexity in Professor Alioscia Hamma’s quantum information lab, and have also been collaborating with Professor Rahul Kulkarni’s research group since last semester. These experiences have allowed me to get started on my career goals ahead of receiving my degree, and I look forward to continuing this work in the years to come.” True is the second student member of the AH Quantum Lab at UMB to receive a Goldwater Scholarship. The other, Joseph Farah, was one of two UMass Boston students recognized in 2019 with Goldwater Scholarships—the first UMass Boston students ever to receive the highly regarded prize. "Sarah is working at the cutting edge of quantum physics. Her research concerns the transitions in entanglement complexity. I am very excited about her results. Stay tuned as you will hear more about her research in the near future," Associate Professor of Physics Alioscia Hamma said. The 2020-21 Goldwater Scholars include 51 mathematics and computer science majors, 291 natural sciences majors, and 59 engineering majors. The Goldwater Foundation is a federally endowed agency established by Public Law 99-661 on November 14, 1986. The Scholarship Program honoring Senator Barry Goldwater was designed to foster and encourage outstanding students to pursue research careers in the fields of the natural sciences, engineering, and mathematics. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms