Beyond The Classroom - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Art & Art History Student Resources Beyond The Classroom Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Faculty & Staff Student Resources After Graduation Beyond The Classroom Student Library & Lounge Research & Impact Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Beyond the Classroom Nantucket Field Station UMass Boston maintains a field station on Nantucket. Studio-art faculty use this facility to offer special courses during the winter Inter-session and summer. University Hall Gallery The University Hall Gallery is a center of visual arts, presenting original and traveling exhibitions for the Art & Art History Department, the campus, and the region with an aim to make exhibitions and exhibition programming culturally and educationally dynamic and accessible. Our mission is to serve as a community forum for cultivating pluralism, fostering dialog, and enhancing educational opportunities for the enjoyment of and interaction with original works of art. The gallery is always free and open to the public. For more information, please email: UHGallery@umb.edu University Hall Gallery is located on the first floor of University Hall, in Room 1220. University Dr. N, Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5707 Arts on the Point The UMass Boston sculpture park “Arts on the Point” consists of large-scale outdoor works by some of the world's leading artists.   This important educational program exposes students to large-scale projects contextualized by the campus and the bay. Arts on the Point is an on-going initiative that involves students in the inner workings of curatorial practices, fund-raising events, and hires them as docents who guide visitors through the collection. In recent years, the program has sponsored lectures by artists aimed at Art majors and has provided contacts for students within the Boston arts community. Visiting Artist Lecture Series: The Visiting Artist Lecture Series is a program developed by Assistant Professor Christopher Schade and presented by the Art & Art History Department that invites several nationally and internationally renowned artists a semester to visit the campus for a day. These presentations give students a window into the complexity of arguments and approaches in the contemporary art world, as well as giving them first-hand access to artists who have successfully made a life out of their creative practice. Each artist comes to a studio art or art history class in the department to participate in a visual art critique and conversation about art with the students, allowing for discourse from other viewpoints and perspectives. The visiting artists also give PowerPoint presentations of their own work in University Hall. These lectures are announced throughout the College of Liberal Arts and the wider university and are open to the public. The Visiting Artists Lecture Series generates aesthetic and cultural conversations, both among the students and the faculty, that continually replenish and nourish the community of the department and the wider university. Due to the pandemic, for the past year all presentations have been presented virtually in webinars via Zoom. Each of the talks is recorded and will now be part of a permanent archive available to students and scholars for research. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms