Education & Training - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Environmental Health & Safety Education & Training Menu menu Menu About Us Building Evacuation Plans Covid19 Education & Training Emergency Environmental Fire Safety Forms Indoor Air Quality Lab Safety Policies Guidance Standard Operating Procedures Sop Worker & Campus Safety Education and Training Safety Training Many faculty, staff, and students of the University of Massachusetts Boston are required to successfully complete varied safety related training requirements prior to commencing their work and activities. Online Safety Training is offered via the UMass Boston OEHS Learning Management System The Office of Environmental Health and Safety (OEHS) has partnered with a consortium of other universities to provide high-quality online safety training programs. This is an exciting initiative that makes customized training easily accessible. The consortium has already developed online laboratory and fire safety training among others and is in the process of developing an additional range of safety training programs. We currently provide many online training courses which include Office Ergonomics, Hazard Communication – Your Right to Know!, and Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP). Many of the currently available courses are listed below. In order to manage the online safety training program, OEHS has contracted with HSI for access to their Learning Management System (LMS) . The UMass Boston OEHS training portal will enable you to access and track all of your professional safety learning in one place. This training portal will include: all of your recent safety training history, as well as courses that were assigned to you, enable you to monitor your training assignments, and register for classroom/or in-person training. OEHS and designated authorized users are able to track your training status. OEHS has partnered with IT and HSI to roll out single sign on to the OEHS LMS. Almost all users will be able to log in seamlessly without needing a username and password. Some learners will need a non-UMass Boston email as their User ID and a unique password to log in. Since November 2016, the online training has been active and the classroom training registration is still under development. OEHS and the Physics Department originally successfully piloted the OEHS LMS. At the request of Physics management, all learners in Physics are required to complete the Fire Safety course. Learners who work in Physics laboratories are required to additionally complete the online laboratory safety courses. Also, a few essential staff will be required to complete the Office Ergonomics. This method is followed in other departments where management might require a couple of courses, then in addition, every PI/supervisor might have additional requirements to perform their group's job duties. Learners Getting started with OEHS training requirements on the UMass Boston OEHS Learning Management System (for faculty, staff, and students to take the OEHS Training): Learner Quick Guide Vivid See your OEHS Rep or PI about your lab training requirements. Contact John Dembrowsky in OEHS by emailing John.Dembrowsky@umb.edu or calling 617.287.5445 to have your profile created. Go to http://umb.vividlms.com Update your profile as required. View and complete your required or recommended training on your Training Status Report. Vivid Learner Quick FAQs Browser Cache Settings Popup Blockers Common Technical Issues Classroom Training Courses offered by OEHS: Classroom 1C Hoisting Preparation Classroom Bloodborne Pathogen Classroom CPR/AED Classroom EHS Training for Department of Public Safety Classroom EHS Training for Facilities Staff Classroom Lab Safety Classroom Lab Safety for Summer Programs Classroom Live Fire Extinguisher Classroom Loading Dock Safety Classroom New Employee Orientation Classroom OSHA HAZWOPER Classroom UMass Boston Visitor Lab and General Safety Lockout/Tagout (LOTO) Online Safety Training Courses offered by the University of Massachusetts Boston Vivid Learning Systems: Asbestos Hazard Awareness Autoclave Safety Biosafety Cabinets Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP) Distracted Driving Driver Safety Emergency and Fire Preparedness Field Research Safety Fume Hood Safety Hand and Power Tool Safety Handling Radioactive Material Hazard Communication – Your Right to Know! Hot Work with Arc Welding Introduction to Biosafety Introduction to Radiation Safety Lab Compressed Gasses Laboratory Safety Laboratory Safety Refresher Laser Safety Liquid Nitrogen Safety Machine Guarding Office Ergonomics Portable Fire Extinguisher Recombinant DNA Risk Assessment Sharps Safety Slips, Trips, and Falls X-ray Safety Help Section For specific training requirements, please visit the UMass Boston Vivid Learning Systems training portal, or contact John Dembrowsky at 617.287.5445 or email him at J ohn.Dembrowsky@umb.edu For Training System Support for Technical Issues Contact Vivid Learning Systems Customer Service at 1.800.956.0333 or customerservice@learnatvivid.com UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms