Migration resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Canvas Migration resources Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Training and resources Migration resources Student resources Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Migration resources We highly recommend that faculty use the move to Canvas as an opportunity to start fresh and let go of content accumulated over the years, whenever possible. Useful content can be migrated selectively by following the process outlined in this guide. Faculty will have their courses migrated from Blackboard to Canvas by the Learning Design team, upon request. While most content migrates seamlessly, there is some necessary remediation needed after the migration to ensure that the content is ready for students in Canvas. 1. Request Content Migrated to Canvas Request content copied Faculty can request content copied to Canvas by filling out the content request form for each course. Be sure to add a comment requesting content added to Canvas in addition to Blackboard. During the pilot period your content will be available in both systems for you to compare and use to facilitate the updates in the new system. Reduce File Size Note: Before requesting content copied, please clean up the content collection in Blackboard for each course and delete any files you are not using to reduce the course file size and ensure a smooth transition. Move video files to YouTube or Echo 360; move large PDFs to Google Drive or OneDrive. You may also choose to save backups of your Blackboard courses . 2. Locate the Migrated Content in Canvas Once you’ve been informed that your content has been migrated, log on to Canvas at https://umassboston.instructure.com and find the corresponding migrated courses. You will have access to the following courses in your Canvas account: Migration shell for each Blackboard course you have requested through the form, labeled with the format “umb_migration_xyz”. This is where the content from Blackboard will be imported for each corresponding course. Official course shells for each course as listed in WISER (identified by official course IDs). These courses will not have any content. You will copy the content selectively from the migration shells to these official shells after the necessary clean up and updates, as needed. In addition to the above, you will also have access to the following: Growing with Canvas course – you are enrolled as a student, use this course to learn Canvas and earn badges as you complete. UMass Boston Canvas Community – use this course to learn from colleagues, share knowledge and ask questions. Sandbox course for Canvas – use this course to practice with Canvas. 3. Update the Migrated Content Your content was migrated to a corresponding shell in Canvas (labeled with the format “umb_migration_xyz”) in which you can update and remediate the migrated content according to the instructions on this page, then copy it over to the official shell. It is highly recommended to copy content gradually, module by module. Follow the Migration Checklist to update your content. Get Help from Learning Design Services Write to us: learningdesign@umb.edu Book a Consult Visit our Virtual Office UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms