- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2022 Boston Mayor Michelle Wu to Speak at 2022 UMass Bo Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Boston Mayor Michelle Wu to Speak at 2022 UMass Boston Commencement 03/30/2022 |
    Office of Communications Michelle Wu, the first woman and person of color elected to lead the city of Boston as mayor, will deliver the keynote address at the university’s 54th commencement ceremony on Friday, May 27, 2022. The Class of 2022 graduation will be held, for the first time, at the Boston Convention and Exposition Center. Mayor Wu is a daughter of immigrants, first elected to the Boston City Council in November 2013 at the age of 28. She was the first Asian-American woman to serve on the council. In January 2016, she was elected president of the City Council, becoming the first woman of color to serve as council president. Mayor Wu has been a forceful voice for accessibility, transparency, and community engagement in city leadership, leading efforts such as Boston's Paid Parental Leave ordinance and Healthcare Equity ordinance prohibiting discrimination based on gender identity. She graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Law School. “It is a privilege and an honor to have Mayor Wu address our graduates,” said Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco . “It is also fitting in that Mayor Wu shares with so many of our students the immigrant experience, the value of diversity, and the commitment to effect positive change in our society. We look forward to welcoming her to Boston’s public research university.” "This is an exciting time to be entering the workforce in Boston, and I'm honored to offer Boston’s gratitude and excitement for this next generation of changemakers," said Mayor Michelle Wu. "Our college students have invested their time, talent, and energy in weathering the many challenges of this pandemic; we are lucky to have this incredible group of young people bringing that same energy to making our city, and our country, a better place for all of us." Degrees will be conferred to approximately 3,900 undergraduates, graduate, and doctoral students in the Class of 2022. The event is being held at the BCEC as construction continues on campus. For more information on commencement, visit www.umb.edu/commencement . About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms