- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren and Business Leader Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Feature U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren and Business Leader Rob Hale to Speak at 2023 UMass Boston Commencement 03/29/2023 |
    Crystal Valencia The Honorable U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren, the first woman elected to the Senate from Massachusetts, and business leader, entrepreneur, and philanthropist Rob Hale will deliver keynote addresses at the university’s 55th commencement ceremony on Thursday, May 25, 2023. The Class of 2023 graduation will be held on UMass Boston’s harborside campus for the first time since May 2019. Senator Warren, currently in her second term, is a distinguished public servant who shares UMass Boston’s focus on economic justice, having served as Chief Adviser to the National Bankruptcy Review Commission; member of the Federal Judicial Education Committee; member of the FDIC-established Commission on Economic Inclusion; law professor for over 30 years; a tireless consumer advocate; and, of course, a champion for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. “Senator Warren has an admirable record of championing and delivering results for the people of Massachusetts. Her economic policies and vision have improved the lives of working families across the country,” said Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco . “And we are truly honored that UMass Boston will be Senator Warren's only Massachusetts commencement address this year.” "I can't wait to celebrate the graduates and their families at UMass Boston -- an outstanding public research university that reflects the talent and diversity of our Commonwealth and our nation,” said Senator Warren. “After years of hard work and perseverance, I look forward to recognizing their accomplishments and sharing a few words of advice for the Class of 2023." Mr. Hale is well-known in the Boston community as the co-founder and president of Quincy-based Granite Telecommunications, a $1.9 billion company that provides telecommunications products and services to two-thirds of Fortune 100 companies. Mr. Hale has distinguished himself as an extraordinary philanthropist, with Granite being ranked for years in the top three of Boston Business Journal’s most philanthropic companies in Massachusetts. He has been listed in the Chronicle of Philanthropy as one of the 15 most generous philanthropists in America, and he has held or holds leadership roles at Boston Children’s Hospital, the Massachusetts Soldiers Legacy Fund, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Deerfield Academy, Connecticut College, and Brigham & Women’s Hospital. “Granite has also been lauded for its deep commitment to diversity,” Suárez-Orozco said. “As a major employer, Mr. Hale understands the importance of a building a diverse workforce pipeline, one of the signature priorities of UMass Boston’s strategic plan.” "UMass Boston graduates contribute enormously to the economic vitality and cultural vibrancy of our city and Commonwealth," said Rob Hale. "More than 200 Beacons work with me at Granite Communications, so I can vouch for the skilled workforce UMass Boston produces. I look forward to addressing the newest class of alumni on May 25." Degrees will be conferred to approximately 3,800 undergraduates, graduate, and doctoral students in the Class of 2023. For more information on commencement, visit www.umb.edu/commencement. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms