- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2021 Biology Major Alexis Perry Named "29 Who Shine" Aw Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Biology Major Alexis Perry Named “29 Who Shine” Award Winner 05/13/2021 |
    Office of Communications Alexis Perry ’21, an Honors College student majoring in biology, has been selected as one of the “29 Who Shine” by the Massachusetts Department of Higher Education. The 29 Who Shine is a commencement season awards program that recognizes outstanding student graduates from each of the Commonwealth’s public higher education institutions. Perry was honored by Governor Charlie Baker during a virtual ceremony on YouTube on Thursday, May 13. "When I heard that I was chosen to receive the award, I felt so honored. I was also grateful for all the people and experiences I encountered at UMass Boston that have allowed me to get to this point and receive such an award,” she said. “It was through these opportunities that I was able to grow to become the person I am today. They helped focus my career goals, and empowered me to hopefully make a difference by providing service to others." Perry, who holds a 4.0 grade point average, was a peer mentor for the College of Science and Mathematics’ Freshman Success Community. She has worked with the Rister Lab on two projects that examine the Drosophila (fruit fly) eye, which have possible applications for treating human diseases. She was nominated for the prestigious Barry Goldwater Scholarship for her research identifying novel proteins that slow down the deterioration of photoreceptor cells and novel proteins that serve as tumor suppressors, which could improve our understanding of human cancers. She plans to become a physician scientist with a career involving both clinical care and biomedical research. “Working in the lab has made me realize what further purpose and medical applications my research could have,” Perry said. “I hope to continue to pursue my fascination with science and to apply research findings to real-world problems,” she said. Perry worked as a home health aide for Visiting Angels, providing care and support to hospice patients and their families. She also served as a job coach at the ARC of Greater Plymouth, helping individuals with disabilities become competitive applicants for jobs. Adding to her extraordinary record of service, Perry ran a music program—through Hingham Active Day—for individuals with dementia and Alzheimer’s to enhance cognitive skills, stimulate brain activity, enhance motor coordination. “Ten years from now, the letter grades of the ‘29 Who Shine’ won’t matter. What we will remember is their commitment to their communities in a time of crisis,” said Governor Charlie Baker. “Our public colleges and universities educate homegrown Massachusetts natives – people who are here to learn, and here to stay. They have shown how much they care about where they come from, how much they care about us, and how much they will contribute to the civic and economic future of our Commonwealth.” All student honorees’ photos and bios are available on the Department of Higher Education web site here. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms