Services & Equipment - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Genomicscore Services & Equipment Menu menu Menu People Services & Equipment Pricing and iLab Solutions Services & Equipment Sequencing Services - 10X Genomics Single Cell Sequencing Custom run parameters for Single Cell Sequencing using the 10X Chromium platform is also available (rates available in iLabs) - Illumina NextSeq 2000 The Illumina NextSeq 2000 System is a powerful and efficient high-throughput sequencing system that supports a range of applications and study sizes.  Our new sequencer supports massively parallel sequencing using Sequence By Synthesis (SBS) technology that detects single bases as they are incorporated into growing DNA strands.  Multiple flow cell configurations enable economical and high throughput sequencing output of 40-330 Gb per run, providing adjustable output based on project needs, with a lower carbon footprint.  Single or paired end sequencing compatible. Maximum output of 120 Gb (with P2 reagents), 330 Gb (with P3 reagents), and Maximum Reads per Run up to 400M single reads (with P2 reagents), and 1.1 billion single reads (with P3 reagents). Library Preparation Services Our NGS library prep and sequencing service includes preparation of libraries from DNA, RNA, or single cell suspensions.  These services include library preparation, QC, and pooling of samples followed by sequencing on the Illumina HiSeq 2500 v4 or Illumina Miseq instruments. DNA-Seq Library Prep The KAPA Hyper Prep Kit is a robust, streamlined solution for DNA library preparation for Illumina sequencing.  The chemistry has been optimized to produce higher yields of adapter-ligated library and lower amplification bias.  This results in increased diversity, lower duplication rates and more uniform coverage.  It is compatible with FFPE and low-input samples.  Our DNA-Seq library construction is performed on a Beckman Biomek FXp Laboratory Automation Workstation. Low Input DNA-Seq The NEBNext Ultra II DNA Library Prep kit utilizes a novel enzymatic cocktail to allow one-step fragmentation, end-repair and a-tailing, which reduces transfers and cleanups to minimize sample loss.  This protocol allows for construction of libraries from as little as 100pg of input DNA. Metagenomic Libraries The Bioo NEXTflex 16s Amplicon-seq 2.0 kit targets v1-3 or v4 hypervariable regions of the 16s ribosomal gene to prepare libraries for Miseq sequencing to characterize microbial communities.  Please contact us to choose the best primer set for your study. RNA-Seq Library prep The KAPA Stranded RNA-Seq kit with RiboErase produces high-quality RNA libraries for Illumina platforms.  The kit includes KAPA HiFi enzyme for high-efficiency and low-bias library amplification, and includes a streamlined, “with-bead” protocol.  We also offer the KAPA Stranded RNA-Seq kit with Poly-A capture, for mRNA only libraries depending on study design. Small RNA Libraries The NEXTflex Small RNA v3 preparation offers a gel-free small RNA protocol with randomized adapters to reduce ligation bias for sequencing of miRNA and other small RNA species. Single Cell Library prep The 10X Genomics Chromium Controller allows construction of Illumina-compatible libraries from cell suspensions for single-cell resolution in gene expression, immune profiling, or ATAC-seq studies. The core is also equipped to process libraries you have constructed in your own lab.  We will perform QC assays (Qubit, Bioanalyzer and KAPA qPCR quantitation), pool your samples and sequence them on the HiSeq 2500 v4 instrument. Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer The Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer is a microfluidics-based platform that provides sizing, quantification and quality control of nucleic acids. DNA High Sensitivity Chip DNA 1000 Chip RNA 6000 Pico Chip RNA 6000 Nano Chip Agilent 2200 Tapestation The Agilent 2200 Tapestation system automates RNA and DNA sample QC.  Separation and analysis of nucleic acid is carried out with only 1 ul of material. DNA 1000 Assay RNA Assay QUBIT The Qubit 2.0 fluorometer accurately quantifies DNA and RNA.  It provides a very sensitive assay as the fluorescent dyes bind only to the target molecule.  As little as 1 ul of sample can be used for each measurement.  The Qubit does not provide 260/280 or 260/230 ratios. DNA Broad Assay DNA High Sensitivity Assay RNA Broad Assay RNA High Sensitivity Assay Nanodrop Lite The Nanodrop Lite is a UV spectrophotometer designed for quantitation of nucleic acids using microvolumes of sample.  Concentration is measured at 260 nm and purity is determined using the 260/280 ratio. Shearing Services The Covaris S220 uses Adaptive Focused Acoustics™ (AFA) to shear DNA for next generation sequencing library applications.  The AFA delivers high frequency ultrasonic energy to process samples in a non-contact environment. Nanostring nCOUNTER Analysis System The Nanostring nCounter® Analysis System is an automated, multi-application, digital detection and counting system which directly profiles up to 800 unique molecules simultaneously from a single sample in a single reaction using a novel barcoding technology.  Each fluorescently labeled barcode is attached to a single target-specific probe corresponding to a gene of interest.  Mixed together with controls, the probes form a multiplexed CodeSet. Visit nanoString for available panels Nanostring also offers Custom CodeSet Design .  This is available to assay any target sequences for any organism.  All custom CodeSets undergo extensive quality-control testing before they are delivered.  Contact us and we will put you in touch with a design expert. QuantStudio™ 12K Flex Real-Time PCR System The QuantStudio 12K Flex RealTime PCR System workflow includes real-time thermal cycling and fluorescent data collection from TaqMan Assays.  The instrument is equipped to process 384 well plates. Bioinformatics for Cancer Research GeneVia Bioinformatics Services The Genomics Core is now providing some in-house bioinfomatics services with plans to expand offerings over the coming months!  Please contact us to schedule a consultation.  We have also partnered with GeneVia,  which offers Genomics Core users a 10% discount on analysis of genomic data: Download GeneVia Brochure For custom bioinformatics analysis, we have a partnership with Genevia Technologies . All customers of our core services are eligible for a flat 10% discount on data analysis projects. Learn more about Genevia’s service model from this video . Learn more about Genevia’s offerings and references in cancer research . GeneVia RNA-Seq Bioinformatics grant opportunity ! CPCT Genomics Core genomicscore@umb.edu 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125-3393 617.287.6578 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms