COVID-19 - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Health Services Health Happenings COVID-19 Menu menu Menu About Emergencies Health Happenings COVID-19 Seasonal Flu Choices Regarding Pregnancy Party Drugs and Substance Use Skin Cancer Prevention Climate Effects on Health Gambling & Sports Betting Counseling Center General Medicine Wellness Patient Resources Immunizations & Health Requirements Forms Billing My Health Beacon Portal General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu COVID-19 Information COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) is caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. It can be highly contagious and spread quickly. Stay informed with the latest guidelines and updates. (Last Updated: 9/6/2024) C OVID-19 - CDC Guidelines UM ass Boston COVID-19 Campus Updates & Policies Schedule a COVID/Flu Shot with Osco Pharmacy for 9/23 & 9/30 Here! COVID-19 Symptoms COVID-19 symptoms can vary widely, usually appearing 2-14 days after exposure. Anyone can have mild to severe symptoms. Possible symptoms include: Fever or chills Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Sore throat Congestion or runny nose New loss of taste or smell Fatigue Muscle or body aches Headache Nausea or vomiting Diarrhea This list is not exhaustive and may change as new variants emerge. If you feel sick, consider getting tested for COVID-19. Feeling Sick? Scroll Down to "Isolation and Exposure Guidance." Emergency Warning Signs Seek emergency medical attention if you experience: Trouble breathing Persistent pain or pressure in the chest New confusion Inability to wake or stay awake Pale, gray, or blue-colored skin, lips, or nail beds (depending on skin tone) If someone is showing any of these signs, call 911 or call ahead to your local emergency facility. This list does not include all possible symptoms. Please call your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you. COVID-19 Testing Types of Tests & Guidance for When to Test COVID-19 testing can help you know if you have COVID-19 so you can decide what to do next, like getting treatment to reduce your risk of severe illness and taking steps to lower your chances of spreading the virus to others. See more from at Testing for COVID-19 | CDC . Prevention Strategies CDC recommends that all people use core prevention strategies to protect themselves and others from COVID-19: Stay up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccines to significantly lower the risk of getting very sick, being hospitalized, or dying from COVID-19. Practice good hygiene . Take steps for clearer air . Accessing COVID-19 Tests On-Campus: There is a limited amount of self-tests available on-campus in small quantities. Students: UHS General Medicine (Quinn Building, Floor 2) - Please ask the front desk. On-Campus Residents: Office of Housing & Residence Life (East Residence Hall) - Please ask the front desk. Staff/Faculty: Human Resources (Quinn Building, Floor 3) Off-Campus: Purchase self-tests online or in pharmacies and retail stores. If you have health insurance, it may reimburse the cost of purchasing self-tests. Search No-Cost COVID-19 Testing Locator Coming Soon (End of September): Free COVID-19 Tests Orders Before throwing out expired tests, make sure to check the FDA for extended expiration dates . Isolation and Exposure Guidance If Symptomatic Use precautions to prevent spread, including staying home and away from others if you have respiratory symptoms. Remember: You may still be able to spread the virus that made you sick, even if you are feeling better. Click here for CDC Recommendations if you are feeling sick. If You Test Positive Take good care of yourself! Get lots of rest, drink plenty of fluids, and treat your symptoms with over-the-counter remedies. If you experience severe symptoms (including difficulty breathing, chest pain, or new or worsening confusion), call 911 or visit your nearest Emergency Department. COVID tests and masks are available on campus (see "Accessing COVID-19 Tests" above). Seeking Medical Care with COVID UHS is available for telehealth appointments and can discuss COVID-19 treatment options with students. Visit our "Making an Appointment" page . Please inform UHS that you have a current COVID-19 infection upon booking. If you would like to discuss Paxlovid , an antiviral treatment option for COVID-19, please call UHS to schedule a visit. It is also possible to get a prescription for Paxlovid through the state . Capsule delivers prescription medications and 150 of the most common over-the-counter medications and COVID tests. Download the app and click on the “essentials” store. Medications are also available in the Campus Bookstore and UHS, but neither delivers. Isolate Yourself from Others: Follow the most up-to-date recommendations from the CDC, which you can review here . You are most infectious during the first 5 days that you feel sick. Do your best to isolate from others during this time. If you are an athlete, contact your coach or trainer for further guidance. If you are a Nursing or Exercise Health Sciences student in a clinical setting, contact your instructor for further guidance. Returning to Normal Activities You can end isolation and return to classes once you have been without a fever for at least 24 hours without using fever-lowering medications and are feeling better. Remember that you may still be able to spread the virus, even if you are feeling better. Please take added precautions over the next 5 days, such as taking additional steps when around other people indoors, including: Cleaner air Hygiene Masks Physical distancing Testing Important Resources: UMass Boston COVID-19 Policies UMass Boston Attendance Policy UHS General Medicine Clinic If You Test Positive & Live On-Campus Students who test positive for COVID -19 are encouraged to isolate off-campus, however, there are times when the only available option is for a student with COVID -19 to isolate in the same room as their healthy roommate. In addition to the guidance above, here are some tips to help you navigate isolation-in-place in your shared living space. Both Roommates Mask with a high-quality mask when you are in the room together. Use ventilating fans to increase air circulation in the room. Air purifiers may also be used. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects daily (especially tables, countertops, light switches, doorknobs, faucets and handles, smartphones, laptops, remote controls, etc.). If you share a bathroom, remember that sinks could be an infection source. Each person should use their own hand or face towels. If you share a sleeping space, arrange beds to make as much space between beds as possible. Do not share dishes or cups. If you come in contact with shared surfaces or items, wash your hands thoroughly afterward. Do not invite guests to your room until the isolation period has ended. Roommate with COVID -19 Wear a mask when accessing common spaces, such as the restroom, hallway, or dining hall. If you live on-campus and have a dining plan, you can use the "grab-and-go" option for meals but do not eat in the Dining Common. Contact UHS General Medicine at (617) 287-5660 for 24/7 medical guidance if you require additional treatment of your symptoms or contact your healthcare provider. Roommate Who is Feeling Well You may still go to class and all activities. Minimize time spent in your room - take advantage of this time to discover new places on campus! Test often using rapid antigen test kits. The best time to take a test is 5 days after your initial exposure, but with continued exposure, you will want to be sure to test again 5 days after your roommate is no longer infectious. Follow the proper guidance if you develop symptoms. Important Resources: UMass Boston COVID-19 Policies UMass Boston Attendance Policy UHS General Medicine Clinic For questions related to living in the Residence Halls with COVID, please email Housing@umb.edu . COVID-19 Vaccines Vaccination Eligibility Everyone aged 6 months and older should get a 2024-2025 COVID-19 vaccine to protect against severe disease, hospitalization, and death. Vaccine protection decreases over time, so it's important to stay up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccine. View More: Staying Up to Date with COVID-19 Vaccines | CDC On-Campus COVID-19 Vaccines University Health Services is partnering with Osco Pharmacy to offer seasonal flu and up-to-date COVID-19 vaccine clinics to the UMB community. Upcoming Clinics: Monday, September 23, 2024 Monday, September 30, 2024 Click here to book an appointment! Off-Campus COVID-19 Vaccines Ask your doctor, pharmacist, or community health center, or visit their website. Contact your state health department. Check your local pharmacy's website to see if vaccination appointments are available. Walk-in appointments may be available. General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms