Wifi - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Software & Systems Wifi Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems WISER Email Password CloudPC Docusign Electronic Signature Software for Faculty & Staff Student IT Discounts Wifi Policy Aira Accessibility Technology Telecom Mathematica Admin Systems Services for Alumni Hardware & Labs Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Wifi Eduroam is UMass Boston's wifi network. Use the instructions on this page to connect and get help when needed. How to Connect to Eduroam Mac, iPhone, or iPad Select the "eduroam" network and log in with your full UMass Boston email address and password. Accept the certificate from UMass Boston eduroam server, which should end with "umb.edu." Windows How to connect to eduroam wifi on Windows. Android, Chromebooks and Linux How to connect to eduroam wifi on Android, Chromebooks and Linux Troubleshooting Wifi Issues Sometimes you might have trouble connecting to wifi for a variety of reasons. Read on to learn some ways to fix this. Turn it off and on again: Turning your wifi setting off and on again refreshes your connection and forces your device to reconnect to the nearest antenna. "Forget" eduroam: To go an extra step, have your device forget everything it knows about the eduroam network and then give it a fresh start from scratch. This is especially needed if you used eduroam at other institutions before coming to UMass Boston. iPhone or iPad: Settings > Wi-Fi > tap the "i" icon next to eduroam > Forget This Network | Forget Network on iPhone Android: Settings > Connections > Wi-Fi > tap the gear icon next to eduroam > Forget | Forget Network on Android Mac: System Preferences > Network > Wi-Fi > Advanced > eduroam > click the "-" button | Forget Network on Mac Windows: Start > Settings > Network & Internet > Wi-Fi > Manage known networks > eduroam > Forget | Forget Network on Windows Once you've forgotten the eduroam network, use the instructions at the top of this page to reconnect. Older devices: We have noticed that older devices have more trouble connecting to eduroam, or maintaining a consistent connection. It's possible that IT staff can help you further than the information listed on this page if you contact the IT Service Desk . In particular, all versions of MacOS before 10.13 High Sierra are incompatible with eduroam wifi due to older versions not supporting TLS 1.2. The only solution is upgrading to MacOS 10.13 or higher. Alternatively, use our Chromebook Loaner Program to borrow a Chromebook laptop for the whole semester. Check your browser: Some browsers have a harder time than others. Folks have had problems with Safari and Edge which were resolved by switching to Chrome or Firefox . Also, make sure your browser is updated with the instructions below: Update Chrome Update Firefox "Forget" UMB-Guest: The "UMB-Guest" network on campus is for users without a UMass Boston account. It is less secure, less fast, and less full-featured than the main eduroam network. If you use UMB-Guest, or have ever used it in the past, to help your experience on eduroam it's advised to perform the "Forget" steps above on the UMB-Guest network settings that may have been saved on your device. Custom DNS: UMass Boston wifi will not work if you use a custom DNS server, such as 8.8.8.8 (Google). Your network settings must be set to obtain the DNS server automatically. Personal wifi networks create interference for others! Please only use the official UMass Boston wifi network eduroam. Personal wifi networks like cellphone hotspots, "MiFi" devices, wifi-enabled printers, etc., create interference with the official campus Wi-Fi network, blocking access for everyone else around you. Get Wifi Help If you are still having problems with wifi after trying these tips, the IT Service Desk can help. Get Wifi Help Who Has Access? UMass Boston students, faculty, and staff can connect to eduroam using their full UMass Boston email address and password. Guests can use the 'UMB-Guest' network. Hosting employees must contact the IT Service Desk for the password in advance. Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy: Wifi users must adhere to the Wireless Requirements and Procedures and Information Technology Acceptable Use Policy. Residence Hall Networks Learn more about the networks available at the Residence Halls. Our Residence Halls have two networks: UMBResHall - This network is for students living in the Residence Halls. You should follow the instructions provided in your dormitory for joining this network -- basically, select the network and log in with your UMass Boston email address and password. You will need to log in to the Single Digits portal to register your devices (printers, TVs, etc.) UMBResHall_Guest - This network is for anyone visiting the Residence Hall buildings but not living there. Select the network, navigate to a web page in your browser, and accept the terms. You should receive a guest connection valid for about four hours, after which you will need to click the accept button again. If you have any trouble connecting to either of these networks from within the Residence Hall or have trouble using your internet-enabled devices on the UMBResHall network, please call the Single Digits student support number: (855) 890-9546 Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms