Preparedness - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Emergency Management Home Preparedness Menu menu Menu Alert Campus Closure Policy Contact Continuity Planning Documents Plans Policies Full Scale Exercise Functional Access Needs Hazard Mitigation Plan Training Useful Links Resources What To Do In An Emergency Planning for Our Shared Safety If you have questions regarding safety policies or procedures, please contact Emergency Management at (617) 287-5104. Mission Statement The mission of Emergency Management at UMass Boston is to prepare the campus through use of enterprise risk management and emergency planning efforts to ensure that risks and hazards are mitigated, preparedness efforts undertaken, and plans are in place such that emergencies are responded to effectively, minimizing the loss of life and property damage; and to ensure that business continuity and system recovery plans are in place, ensuring return of systems and business activities following a disruption.  The Office of Emergency Management provides oversight, coordination and leadership for the promotion of Emergency Management, Business Continuity activities that reduce or eliminate risk to people, property, the environment, and university reputation from incidents or events and their effects. Emergency Operations Plan The campus Emergency Operations Plan is an all-hazards response plan that follows the National Incident Management System/Incident Command System (ICS) approach to emergency management. This system provides a consistent, nationwide template to enable public and private-sector organizations to work together effectively and efficiently to prepare for, prevent, respond to, and recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size, or complexity. Incident Command is established by the senior responder from the appropriate response area. This plan proposes five emergency levels. For small-scale level one emergencies, the incident is resolved at the department level and appropriate notifications are sent out. For larger emergencies, the Incident Commander, as part of his/her notification to leadership, signals the need for expanded university response. Under ICS, the Incident Commander is directly in charge of incident stabilization. University Leadership (i.e. the Chancellor's Policy Group) is responsible for policy decisions, and bears responsibility for the overall resolution of the incident. The Policy Group is in regular contact with Incident Command, and works with the Public Information Officer (Communications) and Liaison (Government Relations) to ensure that appropriate communications are maintained. The Incident Command System allows the campus response to be organized into sections focused on separate but related activities, all reporting up to the Incident Commander, who in turn, works with the Chancellor’s Policy Group to stabilize the situation and ensure continuity of operations. Departmental Preparedness Checklist This Checklist for Departments outlines steps that faculty and staff members can take to ensure that their department is able to respond to emergency situations in a quick and efficient manner. Other Departments Environmental Health and Safety Facilities Information Technology Police Department University Health Services UMass Boston Campus Wide Evacuation Plan. Staying Safe on Campus Training Follow UMass Boston Safety on Twitter Get Building Evacuation Plans UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms