Sana.Haroon - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Sana.Haroon Sana Haroon Department: History Title: Professor Location: McCormack Hall Floor 04 Phone: 617.287.6806 Send Email Biography Professor Haroon joined UMass Boston in 2012 and is a faculty member in the History and Asian Studies Departments. She held the Past and Present Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship 2004-2005 and the Malathy Singh Lectureship at Yale University 2011-2012 and she has taught at universities in London, Dubai, Karachi and Lahore. Area of Expertise Professor Haroon is an historian interested in Islam and Muslim social organization within the territorial and spatial configurations of modern South Asia. She teaches survey courses on South Asia and the Indian Ocean and upper level courses on modern South Asian history, Islamic history and oral history. Degrees PhD (History) School of Oriental and African Studies BA (History) Yale University Professional Publications & Contributions The Mosques of Colonial South Asia: A Social and Legal History of Muslim Worship (London: I. B. Tauris/Bloomsbury Academic, 2021). “The spatial imaginaries of Mujaddidī Sufis and political integration in the northwestern borderlands of colonial India”, Journal of Contemporary Religion 36. 2 (2021). "Custodianship of the Shahidganj in Colonial Lahore: Land, Land Use and the Formation of Religious Community", forthcoming, Indian Economic and Social History Review . "Contextualizing the Deobandi Approach to Congregation and Management of Mosques in Colonial North India", forthcoming, Journal of Islamic Studies . "Competing Views of Pashtun Tribalism, Islam & Society in the Indo-Afghan Borderlands", in Nile Green ed., Afghanistan’s Islam: From its Origins to the Taliban . Forthcoming, University of California Press. “Pakistan between Iran and Saudi Arabia,” in Christophe Jaffrelot ed., Pakistan Today: Domestic Challenges and External Pressures (New York: Columbia University Press, 2016). Frontier of Faith: Islam in the Indo-Afghan Borderland (London: Hurst and Co., 2007; New York: Columbia University Press, 2008; Paperback, 2012). “Reformism and Orthodox Practice in Early Nineteenth-Century North India: Sayyid Ahmed Shaheed Reconsidered,” Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society , 21.2 (2011). “Intersections of Religious Revivalism: Shari’a and jihad across the Durand Line in the Twentieth Century,” in Robert Crews and Shahzad Bashir eds., Alienated Nations, Fractured States: Afghanistan and Pakistan (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2012). “The Rise of Deobandi Islam in the North-West Frontier Province and Its Implications in Colonial India and Pakistan,” Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society , 18.1 (2008). “The Visibility of Women and the Rise of the Neo-Taliban Movement in the Pakistan North-West 2007-9,” forthcoming in Magnus Marsden and Ben Hopkins eds., Beyond Swat: History, Society and Power along the Afghanistan-Pakistan Frontier (forthcoming, London: Hurst and Co.). "Social Organisation and Religion in the North-West Frontier Tribal Areas," Research on Sustainable Development (Oxford University Press , Karachi, 2005). Additional Information Professor Haroon has authored two books, The Mosques of Colonial South Asia and Frontier of Faith and papers on Islamic thought, reformist and Deobandi Islam, spatial practice and borderlands. Professor Haroon is co-director of the Women in Public Service in Pakistan oral history archive. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms