Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Community Community Partnerships Resources Menu menu Menu Community Relations Community Partnerships Faculty Spotlights Resources Activity Descriptions Additional Reading Partnership Development Professional Development Special Initiatives Resources The Office of Community Partnerships is the gateway to community-engaged teaching, research, service, and university-community partnerships. If you are interested in or already are engaged in community-based collaborations we have a number of resources available to faculty to help strengthen your relationships or get started in community engagement. Activity Descriptions UMass Boston engages in a variety of partnership activities that exchange knowledge and resources between the university and the public, private, and nonprofit sectors in order to address and better understand a societal issue or concern.  The Office of Community Partnerships strives to engage with partners in multiple ways through teaching and learning, research, service, and economic engagement activities that adhere to the core values of collaboration and reciprocity. Professional Development UMass Boston offers a number of professional development opportunities for faculty and staff from individual consultations with the Office of Community Partnerships to a number of campus offices. Partnership Development Partnership activities can take many forms and intensities.  They can range from one-time special events to ongoing, fully integrated initiatives.  Activities can address primary or secondary needs directly or indirectly and can be specific or holistic in nature.  Some activities are tied to dedicate funding sources with pre-defined objectives while others are unfunded and organically developed.  The most effective partnerships build on existing resources and are closely tied to stakeholder interests and responsibilities.  However, partnerships can also serve as an impetus for securing additional funding as well as creating new programs and infrastructure within the stakeholder institutions. Additional Reading OCP has compiled a number of resources to help shape UMass Boston's efforts and are excellent resources for advancing the field. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms