Quantum Information Certificate - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Academic Departments Physics Quantum Information Certificate Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Biochemistry Computer Science Biology Engineering Chemistry Mathematics Physics About Career Opportunities Contact Events Faculty Staff Quantum Information Certificate Research Publications Supercomputing Facilities Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs Research Student Success Center Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Quantum Information Certificate The Quantum Industrial Revolution is upon us. In the future, quantum technologies and quantum information science will revolutionize the industry, the market, ways of working and creating, and will shape society. There is a very strong need of education in quantum science and technology for workforce development. Until now, quantum information science is reserved to Physics graduate students. However, entrepreneurs, computer scientists, technologists, engineers, politicians, they all need a basic training in quantum technologies without having to take a PhD in Physics. The Quantum Information Certificate program consists of four courses that form a self-consistent introduction to the notions, tools, and problems in quantum information science. All the mathematical tools beyond pre-Calculus necessary to understand quantum mechanics are introduced during the courses.  The sequence of courses will be: Fundamentals of Quantum Physics, Quantum Computation, Physics and Information, and Quantum Science Applications. The last course will cover quantum simulation, give students a hands-on opportunity to use cloud-based quantum computers, and feature experimental demonstrations of quantum mechanics. Lab tours and discussions with local industrial partners will give students real-world experience with the burgeoning quantum industry in the Boston area, with an emphasis on quantum optics and superconducting qubits. Fundamentals of Quantum Physics (Physics 247) - Basic ideas and mathematics of Quantum Mechanics. This course will cover the fundamentals of quantum physics in its phenomenological, theoretical, and experimental basis. The course is aimed at conveying working knowledge of the principles of quantum mechanics towards the understanding of quantum information processing and quantum computation. Quantum Computation (Physics 347) - Fundamental concepts of Quantum Computation and Quantum Algorithms. Broad overview of the main concepts and tools in quantum computation: fundamental elements necessary to perform quantum computation, survey of the existing quantum algorithms, quantum error correction, quantum simulation and quantum communication channels. Physics and Information (Physics 351) - Fundamental concepts of information theory and statistical mechanics as a core tool for the understanding of physics and computation. Quantum Science Applications (Physics 447) - Applications of Quantum Information Science. Survey of current implementation schemes from quantum computers, from superconducting flux qubits to ion traps to NMR to adiabatic computers like D-wave. Simulating quantum systems and quantum computers. Usage the package QUTIP to simulate quantum circuits and quantum systems on a classical computer and perform quantum algorithms. Programming a real quantum computer using the IBM Quantum Experience module. How to Apply: Current matriculated undergraduate students please use the DocuSign General Program Add/Change form . All other* applicants must complete the DocuSign Undergraduate Certificate Program Application found on the Registrar’s Undergraduate Forms page. (*This includes: Previous graduates, Guest/Non-degree students and those who have never attended UMass Boston.) Please note: Your application will be sent to the department for approval. If your request is approved your application will be processed by the Registrar’s Office and DocuSign will email you a signed copy of your application confirming completion of your request. Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms