Human Rights Certificate - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Human Rights Certificate Home Academics Majors & Programs Human Rights Certificate Request Info Loading... Become equipped to examine human rights frameworks that lead to the political, economic, and social inclusion of individuals and groups. Students in the UMass Boston School for Global Inclusion and Social Development (SGISD) examine key issues that lead to the political, economic, and social inclusion of individuals and groups of people worldwide in their societies. In response to growing national and international interest in human rights education, we are offering a human rights certificate through SGISD. Human rights is an increasingly important field of study in the United States and around the world. On every level, from local to international, people are using human rights to mobilize grassroots movements, organize coalitions, and analyze policies and procedures. Studying this discipline also empowers us to advocate for social justice, measure progress in advancing human well-being, and, as a last resort, litigate to advance the rights to health, education, and decent work for all. Human rights provides a legal and ethical framework for changing our societies and organizations to make them more inclusive of everyone, including people who are marginalized and disadvantaged. Human rights involves scholarly work in law, applied ethics, international relations, economics, social policy, and international development. Our students may also choose to focus on a specialized area, such as religious minorities, children, workers, women, or people living in poverty. Our faculty has expertise in: Economic, social, and cultural rights The rights to education, health, and decent work Indigenous rights Gender and women's rights Human security and development International disability rights advocacy United Nations human rights mechanisms Human rights impact assessment and indicators Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Statement of purpose - Please discuss in 1,200 words or less your reasons for pursuing a graduate certificate in human rights, and your academic, personal, and professional goals. Transcripts - Official transcripts from all undergraduate and graduate institutions attended. Applicants must possess a four-year bachelor’s degree or equivalent from an accredited college or university, and must have a GPA of 3.0 or above. Letter of recommendation - This letter should come from someone who can speak to your academic and professional preparation for program success. Résumé or curriculum vitae - Please make sure all educational background and professional history is current with degrees earned, institutions attended, majors, and GPAs. Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Required Courses (9 Credits) GISD 624 - International Human Rights Law, Policy and Practice 3 Credit(s) GISD 625 - Human Rights-Based Approaches to Social Justice 3 Credit(s) GISD 626 - Global Health and Human Rights 3 Credit(s) Independent Study (3 Credits) GISD 696 - Independent Study 1-6 Credit(s) Elective (3 Credits) Select one elective course from among the courses offered at the University with the permission of your advisor and the Academic Affairs Committee. Graduation Criteria Complete 15 credits from five courses including three required courses, one independent study, and one elective. Statute of limitations: Three years. Contact Graduate Program Director Kaitlyn Siner kaitlyn.siner [@] umb.edu (617) 287-3070 School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our School for Global Inclusion & Social Development. Explore School for Global Inclusion & Social Development College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms