Student Activities - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Student Groups & Activities Student Activities Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities Government Student Leadership & Community Engagement Media Student Arts & Events Council Student Activities Welcome Week The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Activities The Office of Student Activities and Leadership is your connection to engagement opportunities outside of the classroom. Student Activities also provides numerous services for the UMass Boston community including ticket sales , locker sales, and general university information. Whether you aspire to a student leadership position, are looking for student employment opportunities, or choose to access our many resources and services, the staff is here to help you make the most of your time at UMass Boston. Business Hours: The office is open Monday - Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Ticket Sales: Fall and Spring Semesters - Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Winter and Summer Semesters - Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Connections Clubs & Organizations Getting Connected All Students at UMass Boston have access to UMBeInvolved . This is your portal for all clubs and student groups that are active thought the Office of Student Activities and the student governing bodies.  Just log in using your email credentials (not the @umb.edu part) and search for a club or for current events that may interest you. Undergraduate Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) The Recognized Student Organizations are clubs and organizations funded by undergraduate fees. Any undergraduate student is welcome to join any RSO, or to start an RSO surrounding a particular area of interest. Graduate Recognized Professional Associations (RPAs) The Recognized Professional Associations (RPAs) are graduate clubs funded by the graduate fees. The Graduate Student Assembly approves this clubs in order to enrich the quality of graduate education and life at UMass Boston. All RPAs are open to all graduate students. Starting an Undergraduate or Graduate Student Organization Starting an Undergraduate or Graduate club is an easy process. During the first three weeks of each fall and spring semester, online registration is available on UMBeInvolved . Follow These Steps to Submit a New Undergraduate or Graduate Student Organization: Log into your account on UMBeInvolved using your UMB Credentials (not the @umb.edu part) Click on the Organizations tab and “Register a New Organization” Before you start, you will need the email addresses of at least 15 interested undergraduate students or 10 interested graduate students, a constitution, and a club profile Follow the steps and hit submit! You can also serve on the staff of: The Student Arts & Events Council (SAEC) - campus-wide programming board The Mass Media - the student newspaper Office of Student Activities & Leadership Campus Center, 3 rd Floor, 3300/3400 617-287-7950 (telephone) 617-287-7978 (fax) student.activities@umb.edu Traditions Opening Weeks – Jump-start your fall and spring semesters with events that will get you back into the grove without having a brain cramp. Most opening weeks include: Colossal Comedy, Center Stage, Night on the Town, WOWs, Student Welcome Reception, Graduate Student Reception,Information Tables, Community Service Events, Student Activities Information Fair, Athletic Games and so much more. Center Stage – Come see these amazing events.  You will be mesmerized by the performers as they do tricks that cannot be explained. Past acts have included hypnotists, comedians, mind readers, mentalist and magicians. Free Fun for Everyone – On campus fun for the UMass Boston community. Bi-weekly Novelties, Game Shows or just plain fun events will take place. Spring Ball – Go out with style at the UMass Boston annual Spring Ball. Each year exclusive Boston locations host the ball. Recently, the Seaport Hotel and Venezia Waterfront Banquet Hall have held the Spring Ball. Be sure to purchase your tickets early for one of UMass Boston’s most glamorous nights! End of the Year Celebration – Toss those books away and come party with us because you’ve made it to the end of another year! Past celebrations have included a Las Vegas Night, an installment of Colossal Comedy, and a Night on the Town, novelties. Concerts – Bringing music to our students, we have had three major concerts in the past three years. Welcome Weeks Let’s Get It Started – Fall ‘06 Winter Warm Up – Spring ‘07 Game On – Fall ‘07 Winter Blast – Spring ‘08 Stand up and get involved – Fall ‘08 Back to School – Spring ‘09 Catch The Wave - Fall '09 Restart & Power Up - Spring '10 All Routes Lead to Success - Fall '10 Winter in Wonderland - Spring '11 Building U! - Fall '11 Welcome to the Chill Zone - Spring '12 Your Social Network - Fall '12 Mission Control - Spring '13 Find Your Golden Ticket - Fall '13 Be Your Own Superhero - Spring '14 All Aboard - Fall '14 Come One, Come All - Spring '15 Your Adventure Start Here - Fall '15 A League of Our Own - Spring '16 Finding You - Spring '16 Nights on the Town Shear Madness at the Charles Playhouse STOMP at the Colonial Theater The King and I at the Boston Opera House Cinderella at the Boston Ballet Wicked at the Boston Opera House Book of Mormon at the Boston Opera House The Nutcracker at the Boston Opera House Blue Man Group at the Charles Playhouse Other Events Pumpkin Carving – 2007-2016 Spring Week End of Semester Stress Relief Event World Wide Enlightenment Week Ski Trip to Pats Peak UMB's Got Talent Free Fun For Everyone SAEC Program Coordinators Campus Center, 3rd Floor, Room 3001 617-287-7979 (telephone) saec@umb.edu Student Activities & Leadership Staff Charles Henriques, Director Charles.Henriques@umb.edu 617.287.7948 Bethany Tuller, Assistant Director Bethany.Tuller@umb.edu 617.287.7958 Hayley Bartlett, Program Coordinator Hayley.Bartlett@umb.edu 617.287.7987 Bridget McColgan, Administrative Coordinator Bridget.McColgan@umb.edu 617.287.5814 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms