Archaeology Labs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Anthropology Student Resources Graduate Archaeology Labs Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Graduate Undergraduate Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Archaeology Labs The Historical Archaeology and Anthropology labs are for faculty and students to use for research, teaching, and artifact storage. The labs are located on the first and second floors of McCormack Hall. See below for a list of Principal Investigators and descriptions of each of the lab spaces. A Video Tour of the Labs Artifact Processing Labs Supervisor: Beranek These labs are equipped with artifact cleaning and cataloguing supplies, comparative collections for lithics, glass, and ceramics, computer work stations, and a reference library. They also house a flot-tech flotation machine and have workbench space for layout, cleaning, and conservation of artifacts, particularly metals. Conservation Lab Supervisor: Piechota This lab contains two microscopes - one for general inspection and close work and another for examinations using optical mineralogical techniques. More specialized equipment includes a freeze-drying chamber for waterlogged wood, a hand-held x-ray fluorescence machine, and electrolysis systems for the treatment of metals. Consultation is available on preservation issues such as artifact cleaning, stabilization and mending and on basic materials identification. Digital Archaeology Lab Supervisors: Steinberg, Bolender This lab focuses on computer and technical analyses of historic maps, geophysical, geoarchaeological, and spatial field data as well as dedicated computers, survey instruments, and remote sensing equipment. Environmental Archaeology ( Paleoethnobotany / Zooarchaeology ) Lab Supervisors: Landon, Trigg The joint zooarchaeology-paleoethnobotany lab is dedicated to the identification and analysis of plant and animal remains. The combined space houses skeletal and shell reference collections emphasizing taxa from the Northeast, and pollen, seed, wood, phytolith, and parasite collections from taxa associated with human activities in the American Northeast and Southwest. The lab maintains dissecting, low power microscopes, compound microscopes, and a high-powered metallurgical scope, along with manuals for the identification of archaeological collections. This lab has a classroom, layout space, and PC workstations.  Separate facilities in the Fiske Center house specialized saws and an Ecomet grinder for tooth and shell thin sectioning, a Flote-Tech 1A for processing flotation samples, and coring equipment including a vibra-core for sediment sample collection. For more information see the Fiske Center Zooarchaeology and Paleoethnobotany labs . New England African American Archaeology Lab Supervisor: Lee This lab studies the archaeology of the African Diaspora throughout the history of New England. The lab is equipped with artifact cleaning and cataloguing supplies, a microscope, a PC workstation, photography equipment, printer, bench space, and a fume hood. New England Indigenous Archaeology Lab Supervisor: Silliman This lab focuses on collaborative indigenous archaeology in New England, focused primarily on the longstanding project with the Eastern Pequot Tribal Nation in Connecticut. This lab houses a standard archaeology lab with layout space, artifact storage, PC workstations, flatbed and slide scanners, printer, microscopes, photography equipment, and conservation refrigerator. Palynology Lab Supervisors: Trigg, Popper The Palynology lab is a clean space dedicated to extraction of pollen and parasites from soil samples. In addition to the processing equipment, the lab houses secure refrigerated storage facilities for soil samples. It also serves as research space for Virginia Popper’s macrobotanical studies. Latin American Historical Archaeology Laboratory Supervisor: Daniela Balanzátegui The Latin American Historical Archaeology Lab (LAHAL) is committed to critically approaching Latin American history and heritage through interdisciplinary, multivocal, anti-racist, and ethical research. The principal project focuses on the revitalization of cimarronaje ( marronage ) in Ecuador, which contributes to articulating historical strategies of survival and resistance by Afro-Ecuadorian maroon women in the context of colonial slavery and modern legacies of racial discrimination and gender violence. Undergraduate and graduate students transcribe, organize, and investigate 18th-century documents, modern oral traditions, and geographical information, and they work with archaeological databases from past. The LAHAL aims to provide a platform for dialogue between Latin American, Latinx, Black, and Indigenous faculty, scholars, students, and descendent communities. Historical Landscapes Laboratory Supervisor: Douglas Bolender The lab focuses on historical landscape reconstruction and analysis, with a focus on the archaeology, architecture, and spatiality of the North Atlantic and New England. It has dedicated computers for geographic information systems (GIS), photogrammetry, spatial analysis, and LiDAR processing. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms