FAQs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Commencement FAQs Menu menu Menu FAQs Speakers & Honorary Degrees Senior Events Photos, Rings & More Faculty Participation Accessibility Information Ceremony Details Where & when will Commencement take place? All-College Doctoral Hooding Wednesday, May 22, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. This ceremony will take place at UMass Boston, Campus Center 3rd Floor Ballroom, 100 Morrissey Boulevard, Boston, MA 02125. G raduate Commencement Ceremony Wednesday, May 22, 2024 at 3:00 p.m. This ceremony will take place at UMass Boston, Campus Center Lawn, 100 Morrissey Boulevard, Boston, MA 02125. Students receiving doctoral and master's degrees, certificates of advanced graduate study (CAGS) and post-master's certificates are invited to participate in this program. U ndergraduate Commencement Ceremony Thursday, May 23, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. This ceremony will take place at UMass Boston, Campus Center Lawn, 100 Morrissey Boulevard, Boston, MA 02125. Students receiving bachelor's degrees are invited to participate in this program. Commencement Programs As part of UMass Boston’s commitment to environmental sustainability, we are transitioning to a digital-only Commencement program book for our 2024 ceremonies. Students, families, and friends will be able to access a downloadable program – which will include full ceremony details, featured speakers, and graduate names and honors – during the week leading up to Commencement. As we honor and celebrate our graduates, we thank you in advance for joining us in making eco-conscious choices that benefit both our environment and future generations. 2024 Graduate Commencement Program 2024 Undergraduate Commencement Program **Please note: Commencement Programs posted here before the May 31st and August 31st degree conferral dates are for ceremonial purposes only. Final listing of graduates is subject to change based on the results of pending degree audits. Updated versions will be posted after the May and August conferral dates. Will the ceremony be livestreamed? Yes, the ceremonies are livestreamed every year. Doctoral Hooding Ceremony Livestream Graduate Commencement Ceremony Livestream Undergraduate Commencement Ceremony Livestream Will the ceremony take place in the rain? Yes. The Commencement ceremonies will take place rain or shine. Graduate and guest seating is not covered, so please check the weather forecast and plan accordingly (ex. bring rain coats, sunscreen, etc.) Will there be indoor viewing locations? Yes, the ceremony will be live-streamed on large projection screens in University Hall and the Campus Center. Viewing will be available in the University Hall auditoriums and certain rooms on the first and second floor, as well as on all screens in the Campus Center, including in the Food Court. On Thursday, the Ballroom will also be available for indoor viewing. Signage and staff will direct guests to the locations on commencement day. These indoor locations will not be ticketed. Bag Searches & Other Guidelines In order to ensure that our graduates and their guests have the best possible experience, heightened security and bag checks will be in effect during each ceremony.  We ask for the community’s cooperation and understanding with the following: Normal-sized handbags, purses, clear bags, and camera bags will be allowed All bags will be physically inspected prior to entry and are subject to search at any time No firearms, knives, explosives, or other weapons are allowed. No cans, coolers, and other containers (except in cases of medical need, as certified by a physician) are allowed. No artificial noise makers, air horns, or megaphones may be used No promotional items with commercial slogans or identification No signs, flags, poles, banners, balloons, or laser pointers No luggage, extra-large bags, or wrapped gifts Any item that may be deemed a security risk will not be allowed into the venues. Commencement Day Campus Map Please refer to the 2024 Commencement Day Campus Map to identify important locations such as designated parking areas, ceremony site, student line-up location and more. 2024 Commencement Day Campus Map Parking & Transportation Graduate Commencement Transportation Information Traffic on the surrounding roadways and on campus will be heavy and gridlocked at times. Guests are urged to utilize the MBTA’s Red Line and Commuter Rail and leaving vehicles at home. The University will offer frequent shuttle service, less than three-minute wait times, that provide service to and from the JFK/UMass MBTA station. Please refer to the 2024 Commencement Day Campus Map to help find the designated parking facilities and shuttle stops. Parking Information Credit card will be the only accepted payment method except at the West Garage which also accepts cash. The parking facilities are: West Garage - $15 (Pay upon exiting) Lot D - $15 (Pay upon entry) Quad Lot - $15  (Pay upon entry) Campus Center Garage – $15 (Note: Garage only open to vehicles displaying a state issue ADA/HP placard/license plate. Pay upon exit.) Shuttle Information Shuttles will be deployed across campus before and after the ceremony to connect riders with the MBTA and major parking facilities. The stops will be marked with signage and shuttle employees will be on hand to assist riders. The routes are below and shuttles will operate 9:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m.: Route #A: JFK/UMass MBTA Station – Mount Vernon @ University Drive – End of University Drive N. Route #C: West Garage (ISC) – Campus Center Ride-Share Services If using ride-share services, pickup and drop-off points are clearly marked in front of the Integrated Sciences Complex (ISC). Get directions to the ride-sharing pick-up and drop-off (ISC) here Undergraduate Commencement Transportation Information Traffic on the surrounding roadways and on campus will be heavy and gridlocked at times. Guests are urged to utilize the MBTA’s Red Line and Commuter Rail and leave vehicles at home. The university will offer frequent shuttle service, less than three-minute wait times, that provide service to and from the JFK/UMass MBTA station and campus. If you or your guests must drive to campus, it is recommend guests utilize the Bayside Lot which is accessible off of Mt. Vernon Street. This lot will help you and your guests avoid traffic closer to the ceremony and allow you to leave campus quickly after your ceremony. Frequent shuttle service, less than five minutes, will connect the Bayside Lot and the ceremony site. Please refer to the 2024 Commencement Day Campus Map to help find designated parking facilities and shuttle stops. Parking Information Credit card will be the only accepted payment method except at the West Garage which also accepts cash. The parking facilities are: Bayside Lot - $9 (Recommended Lot – Pay upon exiting) West Garage - $15 (Pay upon exiting) Lot D - $15 (Pay upon entry) Quad Lot - $15  (Pay upon entry) Campus Center Garage – $15 (Note: Garage only open to vehicles displaying a state issue ADA/HP placard/license plate. Pay upon exit.) Shuttle Information Shuttles will be deployed across campus before and after the ceremony to connect riders with the MBTA and major parking facilities. The stops will be marked with signage and shuttle employees will be on hand to assist riders. The routes are below and shuttles will operate 6:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.: Route #A: JFK/UMass MBTA Station – Mount Vernon @ University Drive – End of University Drive N. Route #B: Bayside Lot–Mount Vernon @ University Drive – End of University Drive North Route #C: West Garage (ISC) – Campus Center Ride-Share Services If using ride-share services, pickup and drop-off points are clearly marked in front of the Integrated Sciences Complex (ISC). Get directions to the ride-sharing pick-up and drop-off (ISC) here Participation & Attendance What do I have to do to participate in Commencement? Apply For Graduation All students (both Graduate and Undergraduate) must declare their intent to graduate by applying for graduation in WISER . For December 2023 graduates, the deadline to apply was October 20, 2023. For May 2024 and August 2024 graduates, the deadline to apply was March 8, 2024 . A complete explanation of filing for graduation can be found on the registrar's website . If you have further questions about degree requirements or the degree review process, undergraduate students can email ugrad@umb.edu and graduate students can email graduate.records@umb.edu . Register to Attend Commencement Once you apply for graduation, you’re on “the list” and will receive emails and other notifications regarding how to register for the ceremony, how to order your cap and gown, and other information pertinent to the ceremonies. All students who have applied for graduation will receive e-mails and instructions from " Marching Order " (third party vendor) and The Office of University Events & Ceremonies (via events@umb.edu ). The deadline for registering to attend the ceremonies has passed. What if I completed my requirements during the Fall 2023 Semester? The University of Massachusetts Boston holds Commencement exercises in the spring semester only. These celebrations recognize Fall 2023, Spring 2024 and Summer 2024 graduates. Any student who has fulfilled their requirements during the Fall 2023 semester or anticipates fulfilling requirements in the Spring 2024 or Summer 2024 semesters is invited to participate in 2024 Commencement ceremonies. Fall 2023 graduates will have their diploma mailed to them during the spring semester, and all students who have filed for graduation will receive information about the 2024 Commencement Ceremonies. Fall 2023 graduates should be sure to check their official University e-mail addresses after completing their requirements. Your official University e-mail address will be required to register to attend Commencement. Please note: The deadline to participate in the ceremonies has passed. What if I won't complete my requirements until August 2024? You are still eligible to walk in the May 2024 ceremony providing that you had applied to graduate with the Registrar's Office . Please note: The deadline to participate in the ceremonies has passed. If I can't attend the ceremony this May, can I walk next May? Students who have applied to graduate are invited to walk in the Commencement ceremony for the corresponding graduation term of which they applied. If a graduate applies for a December 2023, May 2024, or August 2024 graduation term, they will only be on the May 2024 Commencement list and only eligible to participate in that ceremony, not future ceremonies. I do not plan to attend Commencement. Do I still need to apply for graduation and pay the graduation processing fee? Yes. All students must apply for graduation and pay the graduation processing fee in order to complete their degree requirements, have their degree awarded, and receive their diploma. The graduation processing fee is a one-time, non-refundable fee that is added to your student account when you apply to graduate. This fee includes costs related to diplomas, academic regalia, publications, convocation and commencement ceremony expenses. Attending commencement is not mandatory. What College am I in? The University of Massachusetts Boston has 6 colleges and an Honors College. Please review the UMass Boston Degree Listing by College - Spring 2024 to see which college you belong to. If you have a double major in two different colleges you may pick up a tassel for each, but you can only march and sit with one of the colleges during the ceremony. College Celebrations College of Education & Human Development Celebration College of Education & Human Development Celebration Thursday, May 16, 2024 4:00-6:30 p.m. Integrated Science Complex – 1000 College of Liberal Arts - Undergraduate Celebration College of Liberal Arts Undergraduate Celebration Monday, May 20, 2024 3:00-5:00 p.m. University Hall – Auditorium 1100 & Atrium College of Liberal Arts Graduate Students and McCormack Graduate School of Policy & Global Inclusion Celebration College of Liberal Arts Graduate Students and McCormack Graduate School of Policy & Global Inclusion Celebration Tuesday, May 14, 2024 3:00-5:30 p.m. Campus Center – 3rd Floor – Ballroom A College of Management Celebration College of Management Celebration Monday, May 13, 2024 5:30-8:30 p.m. Campus Center – 3rd Floor – Ballroom A Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences Celebration Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences Celebration Tuesday, May 8, 2024 5:00-7:00 p.m. Campus Center – 3rd Floor – Ballroom A College of Science & Mathematics Celebration College of Science & Mathematics Celebration Tuesday, May 21, 2024 3:00-5:00 p.m. University Hall – Auditorium 1100 & Atrium School for the Environment Celebration School for the Environment Celebration Tuesday, May 21, 2024 4:00-6:00 p.m. University Hall – 1300 Honors College Medallion Ceremony Honors College Medallion Ceremony Monday, May 20, 2024 11:30 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Campus Center – 3rd Floor – Ballroom Tickets How many tickets do I get? Each Doctoral, CAGS, EDS, Post-Masters, and Masters candidate for the GRADUATE ceremony on May 22 at the University of Massachusetts Boston will receive 5 tickets . * Doctoral candidates will receive 3 tickets for the separate hooding ceremony that will take place on Wednesday, May 22 at the Campus Center Ballroom. Each Bachelors candidate for the UNDERGRADUATE ceremony on May 23 at the University of Massachusetts Boston will receive 4 tickets . This year we are projecting the largest graduating class in UMass Boston history. Because of this growth, seating is limited at both ceremonies, to ensure the comfort and safety of everyone. Ticket allocation has been based on the estimated number of participants at each ceremony. Graduates themselves do not need tickets, but their guests do. How do I access my electronic guest tickets? Graduates will be able to log into Marching Order to claim their allotted guest tickets electronically. Once you log into Marching Order and access the registration form, at the bottom, you will be able to claim your allotted guest tickets. After submitting the form, you will have the option to print your guests’ tickets or to email them directly to your guests. Graduates must claim their tickets by Friday, May 3rd . Unclaimed tickets will be released to other graduates after this date. Can I request additional tickets? The availability of additional tickets is not guaranteed. However, graduates will be able to request additional tickets on a first-come, first-served basis through Marching Order . Please keep in mind that the availability of additional tickets is not guaranteed and will not be determined until all eligible graduates have had the chance to RSVP for the ceremony and claim their allotted tickets. The Marching Order RSVP deadline has passed. G raduates will have until Friday, May 3rd to claim their tickets. At that time your tickets will be released and available for use by your fellow graduates.  After this deadline graduates will be notified as to whether their additional ticket request has been fulfilled. Diplomas When do I get my diploma, and what will be on it? Paper diplomas are mailed via USPS Ground Shipping to the diploma/mailing address listed in WISER. Diplomas are mailed based on your degree date and follow the shipping schedule below. Degree Date U.S. Delivery by: International Delivery by: December 31, 2023 March 2024 April 2024 May 31, 2024 August 2024 September 2024 August 31, 2024 November 2024 December 2024 Your diploma will state the type of degree earned (Master's or Bachelor's), your date of degree conferral, university honors if applicable, and the major(s) pursued. The name printed on your diploma will be the name listed in WISER.  It will not be the name you submit on Marching Order for the ceremony. Diplomas are mailed directly from the diploma company to your mailing address. To ensure delivery, make sure all contact information is up to date in WISER; and if you are moving, be sure to set up the appropriate mail forwarding services with your post office. How can I obtain an electronic copy of my diploma? The University of Massachusetts Boston now offers Certified Electronic Diploma and Certificates (CeDiploma/CeCertificate). Read more information on how to order and download your diploma. Academic Regalia How do I get my cap and gown (academic regalia)? Academic regalia (cap & gown) was available to order through our academic regalia provider, Balfour. Graduates who applied for graduation by the posted deadlines received e-mail reminders instructing them to order regalia online by the posted ordering deadlines. All ordering deadlines have passed. Ordering Deadlines: Ship to School*: Sunday, March 24, 2024 Ship to Home: Sunday, April 14, 2024 *Ship to School orders will be available to pick up at the on-campus Grad Fair on May 1, 2024 from 11am-2pm. If you choose to ship to school, you must plan to pick up your regalia at the Grad Fair. Do I have to pay for my cap and gown (academic regalia)? No, you will not be charged for your academic regalia or for the shipping. The degree processing fee covers this expense. The fee is listed on the Bursar’s website . How do I lookup my Student ID? Visit the Student ID Lookup website to obtain your student ID. You'll need your ID number to order your cap and gown. What color tassel or hood will I get? It depends on which college you are graduating from. Please consult the listing of Tassel and Hood Academic Colors - 2024 to see which color tassel or hood you will be receiving. How do I get my cord or stole? The University does not give cords based on grade point average. Certain associations, departments, and clubs on campus may distribute cords and stoles. Honors cords and/or stoles are distributed by specific affiliations. Please check with your affiliations for specific information. Campus Amenities Dining Services UMass Boston Dining Services are proud of support Commencement activities on May 22nd & 23rd. Hours and locations for dining services retail locations during Commencement Week are listed below. Dunkin Donuts Location: Campus Center - Upper Level Hours: Monday, May 20 th – 8:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Tuesday, May 21 st - 8:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Wednesday, May 22 nd – 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. (Graduate Commencement Day) Thursday, May 23 rd – 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. (Undergraduate Commencement Day) Food Court Location: Campus Center - 1st Floor Hour: Monday, May 20 th – 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, May 21 st – 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Wednesday, May 22 nd – 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. (Graduate Commencement Day) Thursday, May 23 rd – 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. (Undergraduate Commencement Day) Concessions Location: Outside on Campus Center - Across from Ceremony Site Hours: Wednesday, May 22 nd – 1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Thursday, May 23 rd – 7:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Campus Bookstore The UMass Boston Bookstore will be open on Commencement Days. In addition to their location on the Upper Level of the Campus Center, the Bookstore will have a pop-up shop located outside of University Hall. Bookstore operating hours on Commencement days are listed below: Hours: Wednesday, May 22 nd - 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Thursday, May 23rd - 7:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Class Rings, Photos & More Where can I buy a class ring or other graduation products? Class rings and other personalized UMass Boston graduation items are available for purchase through third-party vendors, Jostens and Balfour. Purchase online through Jostens Purchase online through Balfour How do I get graduation portraits? Graduation portraits can be taken on campus by scheduling an appointment at Our Year , or by calling 1-800.687.9327 during normal business hours. The UMass Boston access code is 246 and the link is active one week before the first picture date. Portraits will be taken in your dress clothes, and cap & gown (which will be provided). There is no cost to have your portrait taken; photographs will be available for purchase according to your personal portrait needs. Don’t forget that you can use these portraits for your Professional Networking and Job Search sites. Our Year will be available on campus on select dates in Spring 2024. Graduates who have filed for graduation will receive e-mail updated when dates have been scheduled. Will there be a photographer taking pictures at the Commencement ceremony? Yes. Professional photographers from Grad Images will capture images of graduates as they walk across the Commencement stage. For the convenience of everyone, please do not stop and pose, and please ask your guests to remain seated during the ceremony. You will be contacted after the ceremony at your home address and given an opportunity to purchase prints, but you are not obliged to do so. You can search for your photo from the ceremony at this site: findmygrad.com Enter your last name, school (University of Massachusetts Boston) and year (2024) to see proofs of your photographs after the ceremony. Guests I have guests coming from outside the U.S. Can you help with that? Since the purpose of a tourist visa does not directly involve UMass Boston sponsorship, it is the responsibility of the graduate and their guests to check visa requirements to visit the U.S. If a letter is required for a tourist visa application, a Letter of Invitation must be written by the graduate. It is recommended that graduates supply the Applicant with an Enrollment Verification , a copy of your transcripts , or a Graduation Letter. The Registrar’s Office accepts requests for graduation letters, which can be included with any personal invitations that graduates send to family or friends. You can find out more and access the Graduation Letter Request Form on the Registrar’s website. Once the form is completed, undergraduate students should send the form to ugrad@umb.edu and graduate students should send the form to graduate.records@umb.edu . Please note that a graduation letter is not for proof of degree and is not for visa sponsorship . Commencement 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 USA 617.287.5000 Maps & Directions Additional Information Contact the Office of University Events at events@umb.edu or 617.287.5313 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms