Apply for Financial Aid - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Financial Aid Apply for Financial Aid Menu menu Menu Apply for Financial Aid Eligibility & Important Dates Understanding FAFSA Verification Award Letter Cost Of Attendance Appeals Forms Counseling Staff Summer Financial Aid Winter Financial Aid Maintain Your Eligibility Disbursement of Aid Completing Requirements Online Financial Aid Planner FAFSA Changes Student Loan Repayment Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Graduate Student Financial Aid Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships Navigating the Aid Process Students need to reapply for financial aid each year by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Don't forget to complete the 2023-2024 FAFSA! Apply early to maximize your eligibility. Contact the One Stop What is the FAFSA? The FAFSA is the application that helps the Financial Aid Office determine your eligibility. You must complete a FAFSA each year and meet eligibility requirements to be considered for financial aid. All qualified students should complete the FAFSA to be considered for federal, state, and institutional aid at UMass Boston. The FAFSA is available beginning December 1 of any given year for the upcoming academic year. We encourage students to apply early. FAFSA Priority Application Dates Returning Students : Priority financial aid is available to students who file a FAFSA by May 1 and complete all requirements by June 1. New Students: Priority financial aid is available to students who file a FAFSA by March 15 and complete all requirements by May 1. Three Easy Steps: Create a Federal Student Aid (FSA) ID on studentaid.gov. Apply for aid by completing your FAFSA . UMass Boston's school code is 002222 . • Watch this video for guidance on how to complete the FAFSA via Mobile app. Use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool (DRT) to transfer federal tax data to your FAFSA application. FAFSA Help The One Stop is available to assist you with your FAFSA questions. Eligibility Requirements on studentaid.gov FAFSA Tips and FAQs Next Steps after completing the FAFSA How the FAFSA Works The FAFSA generates an Expected Family Contribution (EFC). The EFC is used to determine the amount of financial aid you are eligible for from the federal government, state agencies, and UMass Boston. Financial need is defined as the difference between the estimated Cost of Attendance and your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) as determined by the data supplied on the FAFSA and calculated by a federal formula. Cost of Attendance changes each year and is based on direct educational costs such as tuition, fees, and direct allowances for costs such as personal expenses, transportation, and books/supplies. Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms