Student Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Business Student Resources Menu menu Menu Message from the Dean Student Resources Undergraduate Prospective Students Academic Departments Faculty & Staff Research & Impact BEST Boston Student Resources Whether you’re applying and looking for next steps, a current student that wants to get more involved, or need to know who to contact for what, you have come to the right place! Undergraduate Students If you can’t find what you’re looking for, please reach out to the Undergraduate Program Office at upo@umb.edu . Undergraduate Students PLEASE READ: IMPORTANT DEGREE REQUIREMENT & CURRICULUM INFO FOR ALL CM STUDENTS - Fall 2024 Academic Advising Academic advising is an important tool for all students in the College of Management. Your advisor wants to learn about your goals, plans, and priorities so that s/he can support you as you take classes to meet your individual goals. Your advisor can also help you navigate the campus and help you take advantage of resources that can help you meet with success. Make a plan to meet with your advisor today! CM STUDENTS WITH FEWER THAN 60 CREDITS: COLLEGE CONNECTED ADVISING All College of Management students with fewer than 60 credits who are not part of the LEAD, TRAIL, or 3YD program are advised in the Academic & Career Engagement and Success (ACES) Center [Formerly known as the University Advising Center (UAC)]: Campus Center, 1300, aces@umb.edu 617.287.5500 View ACES Drop-In Advising, Appointment information, and more! CM STUDENTS IN THE STUDENT SUCCESS SCHOLARS PROGRAM (SSSP): COLLEGE CONNECTED ADVISING If your advisor is in the Student Support Services , please contact their office directly for advising. Their office is located in the Campus Center, 1st Floor, Room 1100. SSS Academic Advisor contact information and more can be found on their website. CM STUDENTS WITH 60 CREDITS OR MORE - OR LEAD, TRAIL, OR 3YD LEARNING COMMUNITY STUDENTS: COLLEGE BASED ADVISING All College of Management students with more than 60 credits or who are part of the LEAD, TRAIL, or 3YD program are advised in the College of Management Undergraduate Program Office (UPO): McCormack Hall, 5th floor, suite 610; upo@umb.edu; 617.287.7760 The CM UPO staff is dedicated to helping students in the college start on track and stay on track. Your advisor's name is listed on WISER and can be found below. See below for current advising modalities and options: DROP IN ADVISING We offer drop-in advising during peak times of the semester for CM students who have 60+ credits or who are part of the LEAD, TRAIL, or 3YD learning community programs; please check back for new date.  If you need advising in the meantime, please schedule an appointment with your advisor. APPOINTMENTS The CM Undergraduate Program Office provides both in-person and remote advising opportunities with college-based advisors for students assigned to our office for their academic advising. Mara Gould College-based advisor CM students with 60+ credits last names A-BO Students in the LEAD program Schedule a virtual appointment with Mara Schedule an in-person appointment with Mara Christyn Carey College-based advisor CM students with 60+ credits last names BR-LA Schedule a virtual appointment with Christyn Schedule an in-person appointment with Christyn Becca Meaney College-based advisor CM students with 60+ credits last names LB-M Students in the TRAIL program Schedule a virtual appointment with Becca Schedule an in-person appointment with Becca Karwan Salih College-based advisor CM students with 60+ credits last names N-Z Schedule a virtual appointment with Karwan Schedule an in-person appointment with Karwan We strongly suggest you try booking an advising appointment with your assigned advisor as listed on Wiser. However, if you are unable to find a time that works for your schedule, you are welcome to schedule a virtual appointment with the next available advisor. ADVISING HOLDS Every student in the College of Management will have an advising hold placed on their record for any upcoming fall or spring semester registration period. To remove this hold, each student will be required to meet with an academic advisor from their assigned advising office before accessing registration. Forms Concentration Declaration Form CMWA Registration Form ​ Credit Overload Request for College of Management Students Independent Study Form and Instructions Internship Course Registration Form IT Track Declaration Form Leave of Absence/Withdrawal Form Policy and Procedures for Incomplete (INC) Grade Re-Enrollment Applications Repeat Waiver Exception - Request CM Letter of Support Transfer Credit Permission Form and Instructions Undergraduate Registration Request Form Majors and Programs We offer two majors and a minor, with the option to specialize in many areas like Accounting, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Marketing, Computer Forensics, Business Intelligence, and more! Our Information Technology major provides a broad IT foundation with the opportunity to specialize in one of the following track areas : Business Intelligence, Computer Forensics, Information Architecture, or Systems Administration. Our Management major will expose you to the key functional areas of business and allow you to focus in one discipline as you prepare for your future. Our concentrations include: Accounting, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Information Systems & Business Analytics, Interdisciplinary Business, International Management, Leadership & Organizational Change, Marketing, Sport Business, and Supply Chain & Service Management. Our Management minor will take you to the next level in your business studies. Regardless of your academic experience will include courses from your major and outside your major to provide a well rounded academic experience. Your courses will be engaging and set you on the path to future success. Please consult our International Management Requirement Guide if you are planning to satisfy this requirement in the non-business area of your degree requirements in the upcoming term. CMWA: College of Management Writing Assessment The College of Management Writing Assessment (CMWA) is required before any student can register for BC 230 or BC 290 —both courses address the integration of written managerial communication and critical analysis. The CMWA is NOT the same as the Writing Proficiency Exam (WPE) or the Self-Guided Writing Placement (SGWP) that new first year students take before orientation. Anyone can take the CMWA, however, it is only required for students who intend to enroll in 300/400 level CM classes for degree completion.  BC 290 is a pre-requisite for MGT and MKT core courses in the Management major. Prerequisites for BC 230: ENGL 101 and ENGL 102, 30 credits, and a qualifying score on the CMWA Prerequisites for BC 290: ENGL 101 and ENGL 102, 30 credits, and a qualifying score on the CMWA The CMWA is not required to enroll into BC 295 or BC 298 . CMWA Testing Format and Technology Requirements Please review the CMWA Testing Instructions at least one day prior to taking the exam. If you do not have a computer compatible with these requirements, please email CMWA@umb.edu . The exam will be taken remotely and is not designed to be taken on a phone, tablet, or Chromebook. You must use a computer with a video camera and download the Respondus Lockdown Browser Software . If you registered with the Ross Center and need accommodations for the CMWA, please contact the Ross Center for assistance. Preparing for the CMWA To help you best prepare for the CMWA, we invite you to watch the videos below learn more about what to expect when you take the College of Management Writing Assessment. CMWA Test Format CMWA Grammar Section Explanation CMWA Written Section Explanation Current CMWA Exam Schedule You are STRONGLY encouraged to take the CMWA during the earliest possible testing window to give you a higher chance of enrolling in your first choice BC course—they fill up quickly. Ideally, you'll take it during the semester in which you are taking ENGL 102. Remote Schedule : Thursday August 1, 2024 6:00 a.m. EST to Monday August 26, 2024 6:00 a.m. EST. Please Note: This is the last CMWA testing opportunity before the Fall 2024 semester. There will be no CMWA testing options after 6am on Monday, August 26th, so please plan accordingly. Once you have access to the CMWA 100 Year 2024 page, complete the following items via the left-hand side menu: Go to the "Sign Up Here for an Available Exam" page and sign up for an upcoming available testing period so you are registered for this specific testing period. Go to the "CMWA Both Remote and Testing Center Testing Policies" page and download and install the Respondus Lockdown Browser. This is a proctored testing browser so when you go to take the exam, you need to use this program to access the test. When you are ready to take the CMWA and it is between the start and end time of the testing period you selected, close all internet browsers and programs on your computer and then open the Respondus Lockdown Browser program which will allow you to access the CMWA test in a proctored setting. Viewing your CMWA Results Results can be found in Blackboard by going to “My Grades” on the College of Management Writing Assessment Blackboard page. The Undergraduate Program Office will upload your CMWA placement score into WISER within 2-3 business days. Register for the BC course indicated by your CMWA results as soon as you are eligible for registration in the term you wish to take the course. Questions? Email CMWA@umb.edu Management Achievement Program (MAP) College of Management undergraduate students must take advantage of the Management Achievement Program (MAP). MAP consists of unique opportunities such as workshops, speaker series, on-site visits to companies, and networking events designed to expose students to a rich set of educational experiences. Students are required to complete MAP miles by attending applicable events throughout each semester. View our MAP FAQs below. Questions? Email mapcm@umb.edu or call 617.287.7760. “How do I track my MAP progress or see my path?” All College of Management students have a MAP account on UMBeInvolved website. Students will be able to access the account with their UMass Boston credentials. Students can track MAP Path progress, search and RSVP for upcoming MAP events, watch on-demand MAP workshop videos etc. on UMBeInvolved website. Step 1: Go to https://www.umb.edu/ Step 2: Click “MyUMass” on the top of the web page, then select “UMBeInvolved” Step 3: Log in with your UMass Boston username and password Step 4: Go to the top right corner of the page, click on the initial of your first name, then click “Paths”, then you will be able to view your assigned MAP path and requirements “I work/my schedule does not allow me to participate in regularly scheduled events; what do I do?” We created the following ongoing opportunities to allow you to complete some of your MAP miles on a more flexible schedule. To earn credit, log in to UMBInvolved, click on your profile, "Experiences," "Add Experiences," "MAP Self-Reported Experience." Community Service: The Office of Student Leadership and Community Engagement offers several opportunities to students to complete leadership certificate programs, work in community nonprofit organizations, and internship experiences in a variety of fields and focus areas. Contact oslce@umb.edu to find out more details. You can also complete community service on your own time. Contact mapcm@umb.edu to see whether your experience counts. Women in business leadership media series: For 1 MAP, read and watch the following resources. Submit your responses via this form . Edith Cooper (Article) Janet Mock (Video) Marie Claire Lim Moore (Video) Sheryl Sandberg (Video) Dame Stephanie Shirley (Video) CM Leadership and Motivation Book Series: For 1 MAP mile, read the following books on reserve at the University of Massachusetts Boston's library. Then complete the questionnaire in order to receive credit. Questionnaires are reviewed every Friday, so please plan ahead. Once you have completed the books, submit this form : (This form will take time, and work cannot be saved without restarting the entire form. Please plan ahead.) This experience cannot be repeated for MAP credit. Who Moved My Cheese? - by Spencer Johnson Fish! A Proven Way to Boost Morale and Improve Results - by Steven Lundin How Full is Your Bucket?- by Tom Rath Informational interview, job shadowing, or internship: For 1 MAP mile, you can schedule an informational interview or a job shadowing session with someone in leadership paired with a brief write up. For 2 MAP miles, you can upload a copy of your internship offer letter to the portal. Pre-recorded Options: There is a carefully curated selection of pre-recorded options that a select population of high credit Management majors will be invited to view for limited periods of time each semester. If you are selected, you will receive an email with more details. To receive approval on any other opportunities, please contact mapcm@umb.edu How many MAP miles do I need? All management major students are assigned to a “MAP Path” based on the number of credits they have earned before admission to the College of Management. You must complete 80% of their assigned MAP Path before enrolling in MGT 490 Strategic Management, the required capstone course. Students who complete 100% of their MAP Path receive a transcript designation, a bullet for their resumes about program completion, and a cord to wear at commencement. “Why haven't my miles shown up yet?” A majority of the time, miles will appear on your account within 1-2 business days of the event. Occasionally, this may take longer due to the volume of events occurring at one time. “Do I REALLY need 80% of my MAP miles requirement met before I register for MGT 490?” Yes. There are no exceptions. Please work ahead on the miles requirement. The more you delay earning your miles, the longer it will take to graduate. “What if I didn’t RSVP for an event, or can’t log in yet, can I still participate in events?” Yes. We have a sign in pad at every event, so you will still earn your miles, however we ask that you RSVP for events to help us ensure the correct space to accommodate all participants. New Students: Learning Communities The College of Management is proud to offer three specialized learning communities to enhance the academic and co-curricular experience for our students. LEAD: Learn. Engage. Achieve. Distinguish. A learning community for first year students in the College of Management. LEAD from your first day on campus by being a part of Management LEAD! This community helps you start and stay on track for graduation and is a great way to start making connections with friends and faculty that will enhance your college years. We'll even reserve you a seat in important classes during your first four semesters (and usually at really popular times). Other b enefits include: Academic advising from the College of Management from day one of enrollment Close relationships with peers through smaller classes Help getting acclimated from peer LEADers, who serve as upper-class mentors Integration with the Management Achievement Program Guaranteed seat in LEAD courses, making registration less stressful Enrollment in a special section of the Introduction to Business course, for management majors, or the Problem Solving course (IT 110), for information technology majors, in the first semester, providing early exposure to the fundamentals of business and information technology. 3YD: Three-Year Degree Pathway An opportunity to accelerate the time and cost to graduation. The College of Management offers a program for students to earn a bachelor of science in management in only three years. This program offers the existing degree requirements in a reformatted package coupled with additional support that will lead to an earlier graduation date and start to your career. Students who are accepted into the management major as a first year student for the fall semester will be eligible. Since this program is more academically strenuous, students will need to demonstrate their academic strength by earning at least a 3.25 GPA each semester. The options will allow you to complete 17–21 credits per semester, compared to the traditional 15 credits—3YD assumes a student enters with 9–12 college credits from AP, IB, or dual enrollment. You'll be able to enjoy the flexibility to complete an optional internship during the second summer of the program AND have the potential to save up to a year’s worth of tuition and fees This program is compatible with the university Honors College and campus involvement opportunities. Students will also have peer mentors as a resources in this program as they acclimate to college life and plan for their future. TRAIL: Transfer Resources for Academics, Involvement, and Leadership A learning community for new transfer students in the College of Management In the College of Management we support transfer students' success in a variety of ways, including a unique learning community called TRAIL. This program is designed to help students have a smooth transition, get connected to mentors, and provides opportunities to meet other new students in the College. You'll gain access to: Reserved seats in classes that transfer students often need in their first semester Peer mentors Social and informative events Specialized academic advising Unique professional development workshops developed specifically for transfer students New Students: Pre-Orientation Assessment & Placement Testing First-Year Students: You must complete both the ALEKS Math Placement and Guided Writing Placement to register for courses for the first semester at UMass Boston. If first-year students have not completed either of these, please follow the information below to complete the assessments. Once finished, contact your advisor to make any schedule adjustments based on this new placement information. Transfer Students: Most transfer students are recommended to take the College of Management Writing Assessment (CMWA) when they attend Orientation. This writing assessment is required to enroll in your first semester's Business Communication (BC) course. Registering for the BC 290 course requires completing ENGL 101, 102, 30 credits, and placement from the CMWA. For more about the CMWA and pre-requisites, visit our CMWA Information Sheet. ALEKS Math Placement for First-Year and Transfer Students: To access the ALEKS Math Assessment: Log into WISER . Click "My Academics, Placement Testing, and select ALEKS Math Place, Prep, Learn." Ensure the pop-up blocker on the internet browser is disabled, or the link will not open. Guided Writing Placement: The self-guided writing placement process will help determine which writing courses students should take in their first year at UMass Boston. This placement program involves a set of questions about the students' experiences with language, writing, and standardized testing, followed by a brief reading and writing activity. Please answer all questions carefully and honestly to receive the best guidance on course placements. This process takes up to 60 minutes to complete. Students must sign up for a date to take the CMWA via Blackboard. Please watch the CMWA registration video for steps to sign up for a CMWA date. Non-College of Management Students There are various opportunities for students who are not in the College of Management to take management courses to complete specific academic programs or plans. Want to take management courses as a non-management major? Non-management students may take up to a TOTAL of 18 credits (6 courses) from these management core courses: AF 210, AF 211, AF 301, BC 230, BC 290, MGT 303, MGT 330, MGT 331, MKT 301, MSIS 110, MSIS 111L, MSIS 212, MSIS 301. Two upper-level courses could be taken in place of two of the aforementioned core courses however the limit of 18 credits as a non-CM student remains. To register, fill out the Undergraduate Registration Request Form . Non-degree students must also use this form—you must be an active non-degree student with a UMass Boston student ID number. Contact the One Stop Center to become an active student . Want to officially join the College? Current students who wish to major in Management or Information Technology major can fill out the College of Management Program Add/Change Form . We do not require an essay, but we do require that you indicate which major you would like to join. You will be able to declare or change a concentration or track once you have been accepted to the College of Management. Students interested in the following areas (tracks) should select the Information Technology Major : - Business Intelligence - Computer Forensics - Information Architecture - Systems Administration Students interested in the following areas (concentrations) should select the Management Major : - Accounting - Entrepreneurship - Finance - Information Systems & Business Analytics - Interdisciplinary Business - International Management - Leadership & Organizational Change - Marketing - Sport Business - Supply Chain and Service Management Please allow for up to 4 weeks for a decision to be made. Students are admitted for a fall or spring semester only.  Admission is effective for the upcoming semester, not the current semester. The deadline to apply for admission for the Fall semester is August 15 and the deadline to apply for admission for the Spring semester is January 15.  Applications are accepted year round and reviewed a few times each semester as well as during winter and summer breaks. College of Management Admission Criteria for Current UMass Boston students We don't factor in the GPA earned at another college or university or grades from high school when making decisions in the major change process. Entrance to the management major is granted for students who meet the following criteria: a UMass Boston cumulative GPA of 2.75 on regular coursework at least 12 college credits earned at UMass Boston as a full degree seeking student and have a letter grade assigned to them (i.e.: no "P" grades)* no incomplete grades ("INC") on their UMass Boston transcript Entrance to the information technology major is granted for students who meet the following criteria: a UMass Boston cumulative GPA of 2.50 on regular coursework at least 12 college credits earned at UMass Boston as a full degree seeking student and have a letter grade assigned to them (i.e.: no "P" grades)* no incomplete grades ("INC") on their UMass Boston transcript *Certain courses do not count in the credit totals for either major, including: all academic skills courses, ESL courses below ESL 101, PE activity courses and Freshman Studies Seminar (OCAS 100) Please note that exceptions to the admission requirements are not made. Students interested in transferring into the College of Management are encouraged to seek regular advising from the Academic and Career Engagement Success Center , as we typically advise only College of Management students who have 60 or more credits or who joined a CM learning community in the College of Management Undergraduate Program Office. Interested in Learning More? Attend an Information Session! Are you a current student at UMass Boston, interested in changing your major to study business or IT? Come to this information session to learn more about the College of Management’s two majors: Management and Information Technology. This session will overview the curriculum of each major including the concentration and track options available in each major, unique opportunities available to College of Management students, and discuss the process to change your major. The deadline to submit your application to change your major to the College of Management for spring 2025 is January 12, 2025. Monday, September 30th 12:00pm-1:00pm in person in McCormack Hall, room M-1-210 Friday, October 18th 11:00am-12:00pm virtual on Zoom : https://umassboston.zoom.us/j/91585156543 Thursday, November 14th 3:15pm-4:00pm in person in McCormack Hall, room M-1-210 Tuesday, December 10th 4:00pm-5:00pm virtual on Zoom : https://umassboston.zoom.us/j/91585156543 Undergraduate Program Office Staff Amy Daubney Mei, Undergraduate Program Director Amy oversees the functions of the office and works with all CM students on policy exceptions, course overloads, and graduation clearances. She is available for appointments regarding policy exceptions; talk with your advisor about making an appointment. Mara Gould, Associate Director/Academic Advisor Mara works with CM undergraduates who have more than 60 earned credits for general academic advising purposes. She also works with the Management LEAD program, both advising students in the program and working with the Peer LEADers. Rebecca Meaney, Assistant Director/Academic Advisor Rebecca works with CM undergraduates who have more than 60 earned credits for general academic advising purposes. She also coordinates the Transfer Resources for Achievement, Involvement, and Leadership (TRAIL). In addition, Becca advises students in the Three Year Degree program (3YD). Christyn Carey, Academic Advisor Christyn works with CM undergraduates who have more than 60 earned credits for general academic advising purposes. She alsosupports a variety of other programs and services that are offered by the Undergraduate Program Office. Karwan Salih, Academic Advisor Karwan works with CM undergraduates who have more than 60 earned credits for general academic advising purposes. He alsosupports a variety of other programs and services that are offered by the Undergraduate Program Office. Leona Thomas, Staff Assistant Leona helps students navigate the college and campus experience while providing support to many of the staff and programs in the College of Management. Academic Policies The College of Management adheres to university policies, in addition to our own. Academic Advising and Advising Holds We want to make sure that all CM students are on the right track academically, so we ask that you meet with us each semester before registration to have your Advising Hold lifted. You are encouraged to begin making plans in early October (for spring registration) and late February (for fall registration). The demand for our advising services increases as registration dates approach, so early planning is highly encouraged. Academic Standing The College of Management follows university policy regarding Academic Standing , found on the Registrar’s Office webpage. Many students encounter academic challenges while in college, and we want to work together to get you back on track if you experience any difficulty. If you are on academic alert, academic probation, or extended probation or returning from dismissal or suspension you will be required to participate in the College's Program for Academic Success Strategies with your academic advisor. You will receive more specific information about this program if necessary. Course Repeats Information regarding the university policy regarding repeating courses can be found on the Registrar's webpage. If you need to seek a policy exception you must complete the Repeat Waiver Request Form , found on the Registrar’s website. If the exception is for a CM course, you must also request a letter of support from the College of Management Undergraduate Program Office using the Repeat Waiver Exception - Request CM Letter of Support, found on the Academic Resources section of the CM website. This letter will be submitted to the Undergraduate Studies Office on your behalf and they will let you know if the exception was approved. College of Management Pass/Fail Policy The university allows you to take one course each semester on a pass/fail basis, up to a maximum of eight. (Mandatory pass/fail courses do not count toward this limit.) If the course is successfully completed, a grade of "P" will be earned and the course will be counted toward your graduation requirements, but it will not affect your cumulative grade point average. The grade of "F" will count as a failure. In the College of Management, the pass/fail option is limited to specific courses. CM students CAN take areas of knowledge courses pass/fail, specifically: Arts and Humanities Natural Science Social Behavioral Science World Language or World Culture Diversity 200-level Non-business courses International Management Requirement – as long as it is not also course used in your concentration General Elective Courses CM students CANNOT take pass/fail courses that are major requirements, specifically: Non-Business Verbal Reasoning and Expression (ENGL 101 & ENGL 102) Non-Business Foundation Requirement (ECON 101, ECON 102) Quantitative Reasoning Requirement (can be satisfied by one of the following statistics courses: ECON 205, IT 111L, MATH 125, MSIS 11L, PSYCH 370, SOCIOL 350 or by one of the following calculus courses: MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 140). Writing Proficiency Requirement coursework (BC 230 & BC 290) Business Foundation (MSIS 110, MSIS 111L, MSIS 212 NOTE: statistics course that are approved alternatives to MSIS 111L are included in this category: ECON 205, IT 111L, MATH 125, PSYCH 370, SOCIOL 350.) Management Core Requirement (AF 210, AF 211, AF 301, MGT 303, MGT 330, MGT 331, MGT 490, MKT 301, & MSIS 301) Information Technology Core Requirement (IT 110, Programming Requirement Courses (i.e.: IT 116, IT 117, etc.) IT 230L, IT 240, IT 244, IT 246, IT 285L, IT 425L, IT 485) All Concentration Courses All Track Courses All Professional Elective Courses (in IT Major) All major requirements MUST be taken for a letter grade to count for satisfaction of the requirement for graduation. It is important to note that a “pass/fail” selection cannot be cancelled after the published deadline that is listed in the Academic Calendar each semester. College of Management Dean’s List Criteria Dean’s List is an honor that is given each fall and spring semester to students who demonstrate superior performance in all of their courses for that term. The Dean’s List honor is noted on the student’s transcript for that term and a reception is held by the College to celebrate this success. The criteria for being on the College of Management Dean’s List is the following: A minimum of two courses in that semester A semester GPA of 3.60 or higher No incomplete grades (INC) for that term on the student record These criteria must be met by the end of the grading period for that semester to be placed on the Dean’s List. University Withdrawal Policy and Procedure Bloomberg Professional Service What is the “Bloomberg Professional Service” aka “Bloomberg Terminal”? The “Bloomberg Professional Service” is commonly referred to as the “Bloomberg Terminal." The Bloomberg Professional® Service (BPS) is the most powerful and flexible platform for financial professionals who need real-time data, news, and analytics to make smarter, faster, more informed business decisions. It covers Equities, Derivatives, Fixed Income, Foreign Exchange, and Commodities markets. With BPS, you can get access to the 24,000+ companies around the world on 360+ exchanges. There are more than 315,000+ subscribers in 174 countries. What are the benefits as a student? Using Bloomberg students can connect to a network of 2.5 million financial professional users. It helps students benefit from integrating theory with real-world practice. How do I use the Bloomberg Professional Service at the College of Management? The Bloomberg Lab is located on the 3rd floor of the Healey Library. It has 12 terminals, which are dedicated solely to using Bloomberg. The lab door is password protected. The access to the lab is reserved for College of Management students. Students need to email at HelpWithBloomberg@gmail.com to get the access key, terminal password, and other account setup help. How do I become Bloomberg Certified? There are four certification exams for each Market Sectors: Equity, Fixed Income, Commodities, and Foreign Exchange (FX). After completing all four certifications, you become Bloomberg Proficient. To complete a certification, you’ll have to watch four core videos and one of the Market Sector videos. You’ll be prompted to take 2 exams throughout the process. What if I do not pass the exam the first time? If you do not pass the exam for the first time, get in touch with Bloomberg help by pressing the help key twice and request for the account reset. You will get only two attempts to pass the certification exam. Campus Resources Student Code of Conduct: All students at UMass Boston are expected to be responsible members of the University Community. The Dean of Students Office has outlined the Student Code of Conduct which sets the expectations for student responsibility inside and outside the classroom. View the Code of Conduct . Academic Policies: Students can find the academic policies on the Registrar's website ; this information applies to all University students. College of Management Academic policies are located on the Undergraduate Program Office page . Career Services: UMass Boston students can access resources through the Office of Career Services & Internships . The College of Management has a strong relationship with this office; and encourages all students to connect with a Career Advisor, set up their Handshake account, and attend the Career Development workshops in a student's first semester. Ross Center for Disability Services: For students with an IEP in high school or who were registered with the accessibility center at your previous institution and want to continue receiving accommodations at UMass Boston, the Ross Center can help. One Stop: This is a student services center with a team of professionals representing three essential offices: Financial Aid Services , the Registrar's Office , and the Bursar's Office . One Stop helps students take care of several financial aid, Registrar, and student billing transactions at once and in one centralized location. Getting to Campus: There are many ways to access campus: driving, the MBTA, biking, or walking. Visit the Parking and Transportation website for information about each of these options. AP/IB/Dual Enrollment Credit: For students who took AP/IB exams in high school or completed dual enrollment courses, official records will need to be submitted to have the earned credits posted to the student's official record. Visit the advanced credit section to learn more about policies and how to send your records. Understanding your Transfer Credit: Students who transfer to UMass Boston can learn more about the process and how their previous courses will transfer over by reviewing Transfer Credit on the Admissions page. If a student thinks a course should have transferred as a direct equivalent to a requirement and UMass Boston does not fill out the appeals form to request another review for any non-business course. For business courses, contact upo@umb.edu and share the syllabus or syllabi for the courses you would like reviewed for equivalency. Start on Track: The University Advising Center has put together helpful content to make the transition to UMass Boston successful . University Health Services: Is committed to providing quality medical services and education to enhance and promote the health and well-being of the university community. As part of this commitment, there are certain requirements for all new students. Please visit the Information for New Students page to learn about these requirements. Writing Resources Guidelines for the Documentation of Academic Work [pdf] References [pdf] References for Online [pdf] References for Print [pdf] Style Guide for CM Courses [pdf] Textual Citations [pdf] Using Quotations [pdf] Graduate Students If you can’t find what you’re looking for below, please reach out to the Graduate Program Office at gradcm@umb.edu . First Year Student Checklist We are so glad you have decided to join us here at UMass Boston! Here's a checklist of 12 items to complete before the semester starts. Submit your deposit. Your first step is to submit your non-refundable $250 New Student Deposit fee via the Check Status Portal . Set up your student email. All university communications will be sent to your student email account. You will also need to set up your student email to gain access to WISER. Log into WISER. WISER is the student portal for course registration, financial aid information, and semester billing information. Access WISER with your email username and password. Connect with your advisor. Email Tara.Norton@umb.edu to get started. Register for courses. Following a discussion with your academic advisor, you will register for your courses. If you encounter any errors, please reach out to your academic advisor. Pay your semester bill. Pay your bill at the Bursar's Office (Campus Center, Fourth Floor) or through WISER . To pay your bill through WISER, go to Student Center > Finance and Financial Aid > Student Financial Center > Payment Options > Credit Card/Electronic Check or International Wire Transfer. You can go to the Account Summary tab to view semester charges, financial aid, or graduate assistance and to the Account Management tab to view waivable fees. For students who filed a FAFSA, you can accept, decline or adjust federal loans online through your WISER account or via the Financial Aid Office . Please note that your semester bill will be due before the appropriate fees have been waived. You will need to estimate how much your bill will be and pay that amount in order to not incur a fee. Your best option is to overestimate and overpay the bill. You will be issued a refund equal to the amount you overpaid once the waivers and assistantships have been applied to your account. You can review graduate tuition and fees from the Bursar’s Office to estimate your semester bill. Complete University Health Services forms and immunizations. Review the Health Services' New Student Information and follow the directions. If needed, find housing. The Roommate Match Program can assist if you are interested in sharing a space. Obtain a new student ID. The BeaconCard is the official ID card of UMass Boston. You’ll be able to obtain your ID after you register for classes. The BeaconCard office is located in Quinn 2-059 (next to Parking and Transportation). Purchase MBTA or a parking pass. The MBTA (Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority) offers an 11% discount for T passes to all students if purchased through the Office of Transportation Services. You can also purchase a prepaid parking pass at reduced rates. The office is located in the Quinn Administration Building (Second Floor, Room 070). They can also be reached by phone at 617.287.5041. Download the subsidy application form here . . View the academic calendar . Make sure you are aware of all upcoming important dates. And if you are an international student, take these steps as well. Forms Graduate Registration Request Form Independent Study Form Additional Program Form En-Route Degree Application Leave of Absence Request Form Program Change Form Program Fee Form Statute of Limitations Extension Transfer Credit Approval Form (Graduate) Withdrawal Form Re-Enrollment Application Fall Semester Application Deadline: August 15 Spring Semester Application Deadline: January 1 FAQs “I received an error message when registering for classes. What should I do?” Use the Graduate Registration Request Form if you receive an error message from the WISER system. This is common if you have waived a class that is a prerequisite for another class (example: you waived MBA AF 610 and are looking to take MBA AF 611). You should also use this form when trying to enroll in courses that require instructor permission, as well as capstone courses. The College of Management does not use permission codes. Registration requests are typically processed within 24 hours. If you are completing an independent study, you must complete the Independent Study Form . After your faculty advisor and the appropriate department chair sign it, the form should be sent to gradcm@umb.edu. “Is there a minimum GMAT or GRE score?” The admissions cycle through spring 2024 will opt out of requiring GRE/GMAT scores for admission to the MBA, MSA, and MSF degrees. The GMAT/GRE is required for the MSBA and MSIT degrees. The College of Management will accept GMAT scores of 520 or higher and GRE scores of 306 or higher. “How many students are in a typical class?” Most classes are taught in small classrooms that seat fewer than 40 students, not in lecture halls. On average courses 20-25 students will be registered. How many classes do I have to take each semester? The graduate course load is different and more rigorous than your undergraduate education. Students working full-time generally take one to three classes per semester, depending on their personal and professional schedules. Taking fall, spring, and summer classes will expedite your degree completion. Students can enroll in one to four classes per semester and five classes with approval from the Graduate Program Director. “Where are classes typically held?” Courses are offered at two locations, UMass Boston’s Campus or UMass Center in Beacon Hill, and online. “How do I know my residency status? Will I pay MA in-state tuition or out of state?” You may discuss your residency status with the Office of the Registrar . “Can I transfer courses from another University?” We accept up to six credits of equivalent graduate course work from outside of UMass Boston, which is evaluated case-by-case by our admissions committee.Students must have earned a B or higher in equivalent courses. “What is the typical course work load for graduate school?” While each course will vary, graduate students should expect to spend several hours a week per course. Many classes include group projects, case studies, reading assignments, papers, presentations, and extensive final examinations. “Is financial aid available?” Graduate Financial Aid comes from four sources . Doctoral Students If you can’t find what you’re looking for, please reach out to the PhD Program Office: Finance: cmfinancephd@umb.edu Information Systems for Sea Science & Management: cmisphd@umb.edu Organizations and Social Change: cmoscphd@umb.edu FAQs Program Fit How would you describe your doctoral program? The PhD in Business Administration at the College of Management at UMass Boston is designed to prepare students for leadership roles as educators, researchers, business analysts, and organization decision-makers. Our business administration program is multidisciplinary, offering specialized training in a variety of management disciplines while bridging theories, concepts, and research methods drawn from across the social and behavioral sciences. Our approach reflects the urban mission of the University of Massachusetts Boston and gives special attention to the needs and opportunities of diverse, global communities. What distinguishes your PhD in Business Administration? Specialized Tracks : Students may choose to specialize in Organizations and Social Change, Finance, or Management Information Systems. Small Classes : The College of Management’s PhD in Business Administration program is dedicated to the personal and intellectual growth of a small group of students. A maximum of eight students are enrolled in the specialized tracks each year. Financial Aid : Most admitted students are offered graduate assistantships with tuition credits, a health insurance credit, and stipends for up to four years of study. Research Opportunities : Students and faculty in the program engage in research and policy projects closely connected with several university business centers and institutes. What do your graduates do? Graduates of the program will be prepared for academic careers in research-oriented business schools, as well as professional and executive positions in public and private organizations. Do I need a master’s degree to apply for your PhD program? No, students holding a bachelor’s degree are eligible for admissions. However, it is expected that candidates have completed prior master’s level academic work. Do I need to have a bachelor’s and/or master’s in management? Not necessarily. We do expect prospective students to have broad, foundation knowledge across at least four of the six traditional business areas of Accounting, Finance, Operations Management, Marketing, Information Systems, and Organizational Behavior. You can demonstrate that background by having taken five or more graduate-level courses (or their equivalencies) across the business foundation areas or across the disciplines that provide the substantive foundations for business studies, including computer science, economics, mathematics, political science, psychology, and sociology. Depending on your track, we also expect you to have a basic level of proficiency equivalent to one semester each of calculus, statistics, linear algebra, and micro/macro economics at the undergraduate or graduate level. If I already have a master’s degree from the College of Management, may I move directly into the PhD program? No. The master’s programs and the PhD are entirely separate. Students wanting to earn a master’s degree in a management field from UMass Boston should apply directly to those programs. The PhD program does not offer terminal or “en route” master’s degrees. Timing Is it possible to go through the program taking classes part-time? No, the program is designed to be a full-time program. Can I start in the spring term? No, each cohort will begin in the fall. How long will it take me to earn the degree? The length of time students require to complete the PhD program varies. However, you’ll need at least three years to satisfy all requirements. Eligibility for financial aid runs out after four years. Financial How much is it going to cost me to attend UMass Boston? Below is an estimate of a single graduate student’s annual expenses. Bear in mind that these cost estimates for living expenses are minimum estimates for a 12-month period and that, depending on the individual, actual costs may be higher. Students must be prepared to pay their own expenses and should anticipate yearly increases in both tuition and living expenses. Transportation to and from the United States is not included in the estimates. Expense / Cost Tuition: $9,758.00 Fees (including health insurance): $11,569.00 Room and Board: $10,200.00 Books and Supplies: $860.00 Personal Expenses (Miscellaneous): $3,000.00 Total: $35,387.00 Do you offer financial aid? Students accepted into the program are offered full tuition credits and a $25,000 stipend to help defray living costs for up to four years. Summer stipends of $6,000 are also available annually to all qualified students. Travel grants annually fund academic conference presentations. During the first two years of coursework, they are assigned to a faculty member as a research assistant; for the third year, students will be engaged in instructional activities. Funding for the fourth year is merit-based from a limited pool of program funds. What teaching responsibilities will I have as part of the aid package? Students in the PhD program are generally expected to gain classroom-teaching experience as primary instructors before graduating. Does UMass Boston have graduate student housing? The university does not currently offer graduate student housing. We do provide housing referral assistance and have a partnership with several area apartment complexes. Please call 617.287.6011 or consult www.umb.edu/housing for more information on prices and availability. Program Requirements When are classes offered? Classes are generally offered during afternoon and evening hours on Mondays through Thursdays. Most courses meet once a week. See the Academic Handbook for descriptions of the courses. Is it possible to transfer credits from previous graduate work? No. You may be able to waive some required courses based on prior studies but all PhD students must take a minimum of 14 courses while in residence at UMass Boston. What exams do students take? You will take an examination for admission to candidacy at or near the conclusion of your formal coursework. The examination is usually both written and oral and includes the defense of your dissertation proposal. The Finance track also has a qualifying exam after the first year in the program. What does it mean to defend your dissertation proposal? Students must develop a written document that defines the research problem which is the focus of their dissertation and that explains how they intend to investigate it for answers. Students publicly present their dissertation proposals to members of their dissertation committees. What does it mean to defend your dissertation at the end of your program? During the final part of the program, you must write an extended study based on original research. You choose the topic of research with guidance from your dissertation committee. The dissertation typically takes at least a full year to complete. Like the proposal, the completed study is subjected to scrutiny in a public forum (called the dissertation defense) before final approval. During the final part of the program, you must write an extended study based on original research. You choose the topic of research with guidance from your dissertation committee. The dissertation typically takes at least a full year to complete. Like the proposal, the completed study is subjected to scrutiny in a public forum (called the dissertation defense) before final approval. Have more questions? Contact the PhD Program Office at: cmphd@umb.edu Application Process On what basis do you assess applications? Admission to the doctoral program is selective. We seek students with high potential to engage in academically rigorous and collaborative learning. A faculty committee considers each application evaluating your areas of interest with respect to our curriculum and faculty research specialties, your prior academic preparation, letters of recommendation from former professors and mentors, and standardized test scores. How many applicants do you accept? Each year the Organization and Social Change track aims to enroll four to six new students. The Finance track and the MIS track will be looking for entering classes about twice that size every other year. What documents do I need to provide? Applicants need to submit a current résumé or CV, a statement of purpose, three letters of recommendation, official transcripts of all prior academic work, a writing sample, official GMAT or GRE scores, and, if appropriate, an official TOEFL or IELTS score. We also accept DUOLINGO English test results, TOEFL, IELTS Academic, and PTE Academic. Provide these materials directly to the Graduate Admissions Office . *If applying to the OSC track, please see OSC track-specific requirements . May I, and should I, contact individual professors? During the pre-admissions process, you are free to initiate contact with individual faculty members about their research interests and current areas of policy work. In fact, this outreach could help to identify a potential academic advisor or mentor. However, there is no requirement to make such contact. Are standardized tests required? Yes, all applicants must take the GMAT or GRE. If I already took the GMAT or GRE, must I take it again? If you took the test within the last five years, we will accept an official notification of that score. Is there a minimum required GMAT/GRE score? We do not consider applicants with less than 450 on the GMAT (or its equivalent on the GRE). As in our master’s degree programs, the higher your GMAT/GRE score, the more likely your chances of acceptance, but no score on a standardized test guarantees a favorable admission decision. We also accept DUOLINGO English test results, TOEFL, IELTS Academic, and PTE Academic. Is the TOEFL required for all international applicants? Do you have a minimum acceptable score? Non-native speakers of English, who earned their bachelor’s degree from a college or university outside the United States, must take either the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System exam (IELTS) . Target test scores for the PhD in Business Administration are as follows: TOEFL: Paper-based: 600, Computer-based: 250, Internet-based: 100. IELTS: 7.0. These targets are flexible and are higher than the College of Management looks for in its master’s programs. I will be taking the GRE/GMAT/TOEFL Test in January or February. Should I submit the application without these scores? Yes. Indicate that the standardized test score will be forwarded to the University of Massachusetts Boston and indicate the date that you are taking the exam. We can begin to process the application without all of the information but note that no official action can be taken on an incomplete application. We also accept DUOLINGO English test results, TOEFL, IELTS Academic, and PTE Academic. What is the minimum required GPA? There is no application cutoff in terms of GPA, but academic excellence is expected. What does the writing sample entail? The writing sample should be a sample of your intellectual work. It can be a paper from a previous course or a technical study you prepared at work, if that is appropriate. Who should I get to write my letters of recommendation? Recommendations should be from faculty members in your major field, but may also be written by employers or others familiar with your academically-related strengths. Can the Graduate Program Office advise me whether I am likely to gain admission? No. The evaluation of the details of each applicant's record requires consultation with several faculty members. We undertake this task only when the application is complete and the application fee has been paid. Do I have to have an interview? Finalist applicants may be interviewed, in person or via the phone or Internet. If I am denied admission, may I receive feedback on my application? Due to the volume of applications, the College of Management is unable to share the details of its application decisions. Once accepted, may I defer my admission? Not usually. The Finance and MIS tracks follow a cohort model with a new class starting every other year, so deferral is not practical. With the track director’s approval, accepted students in OSC may defer admission to the next annual admission cycle. To discuss deferrals, contact the Graduate Program Office at cmphd@umb.edu . May I reapply if I am not accepted? Yes. However, due to the competitive nature of PhD study, the admissions committees do not encourage an applicant to reapply unless there has been a significant change in his or her credentials, such as additional coursework or a much-improved GRE or GMAT score. International Students First Year International Student Overview In addition to the First Year Student checklist, international students must review the following points and complete any required tasks as soon as possible. Upon arrival, check in with the UMass Boston International Student and Scholar Office (ISSO) . You must report to the ISSO office within 30 days. You will also be notified about the Immigration Clearance session. Attendance is required. ISSO is responsible for registering your arrival in the SEVIS system . It is your responsibility to keep them updated in order to have your international student status on track. At the port of entry, be sure to have your passport and I20 available. Remember to tell the officer you are entering the country on your F visa (student visa). Read this ISSO section carefully and contact the ISSO office if you have any questions. Once you are here, be sure to have a copy of your passport and I20 on you at all times. A picture of these documents on your phone is always a good idea. Don’t carry originals with you. As an international student, you can set up a bank account with any American bank. Be sure to do that as soon as you arrive because a local bank account and a card is very handy. Visit one of the mobile network carriers to get a local mobile number. This will allow you to avoid additional costs when communicating with family and friends back home. Finally, you might want to get a local driving license. Some countries are eligible for a transfer. Citizens of other countries will have to apply for a new driving license. Please remember you are allowed to drive with a foreign license for 12 months as long as it meets the requirements. You can find more information about getting a driver's license here . Additional Resources Find out what life is like as an international student and the important documents you should bring to campus. CPT and OPT Information Important Documents to Bring [pdf] Student Life as an International Student UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms