Renovations to Existing Academic Buildings - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Planning & Sustainability Projects Renovations to Existing Academic Buildings Menu menu Menu Campus Master Plan Projects Harborwalk Integrated Sciences Complex Parking Garage West Renovations to Existing Academic Buildings Residence Hall 1 Quad Development University Hall Utility Corridor & Roadway Relocation Sustainability & Resiliency SPACE Committee Maps & Floor Plans Renovations to Existing Academic Buildings As part of the 25 Year Campus Master Plan the cost to repair and renovate the Science Center was found to exceed its replacement cost. The University took the decision to demolish the Science Center, which together with demolition of the pool and areas of the plaza, would enable the development of a central quadrangle to form the new green space at the heart of the Campus. Completion of the ISC allowed 1/3 of the programs in the Science Center to relocate, while University Hall relocated a further 1/4. These new buildings also created vacant space in Wheatley Hall and McCormack Hall. The last 9 academic departments remaining in the Science Center required new space. The Renovations to Existing Academic Buildings (REAB) project provided their new homes on Campus. REAB included construction in four original campus buildings (McCormack and Wheatley Halls, Healey Library, and Quinn). The project has renovated predominantly vacant spaces to accommodate programs from the Science Center. The renovations and the substantial relocation of programs from the Science Center were completed in January 2020. With completion of the project the last departments and teaching labs formerly housed in the Science Center have relocated to enable its demolition. Funded by the UMass Building Authority, the project was managed by Hill International, with Cannon Design as the architect and Consigli as the general contractor. To report an issue such as noise, debris, or interruptions to utilities, please contact Facilities Service Response: facilities@umb.edu or 617-28 7-5450 . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms