Academics - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home All of Us Black Men Academics Menu menu Menu AAPI Black Men Academics Career Success Chancellor Statement Diversity Affirmative Action Community Crisis Support File A Complaint Black Women Inclusive Identity Latinidad Native American & Indigenous Pride Racial Climate Survey Academics Academic Support Tutoring | Academic Support Programs offers a variety of tutoring and tutorial formats to support students in their undergraduate and graduate coursework. Workshops | The Reading, Writing, and Study Strategies Center offers tutorial support in analytical language development, with special attention paid to the reading, writing and thinking strategies needed to succeed in general education courses. The Center is staffed by professional tutors/faculty and by graduate students, primarily from the Education, English, and Applied Linguistics MA programs. McNair Program | The mission of the Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program is designed to provide opportunities for undergraduates from disadvantaged backgrounds especially from underrepresented academic groups (Blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans/Alaska Natives/Pacific Islanders) to excel at the undergraduate level in Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics (STEM), progress toward doctoral degrees, and undertake careers in college and university teaching. Success Boston | Success Boston is a citywide college completion initiative that provides resources aimed at doubling the college graduation rate of Boston Public School (BPS) students. The university has formed a Success Boston team of university administrators, staff, advisors, and coaches from nonprofit community agencies to work with our BPS graduates. Who’s my academic advisor? | Go to our Here4U page and click Academic Advising. Once you enter your information, you will receive a response from the University Advising Center with the information you’ve requested! National Association of Black Accountants | The mission of NABA, Inc. is to address the professional needs of its members and to build leaders that shape the future of the accounting and finance profession with an unfaltering commitment to inspire the same in their successors. The Association shall unite through membership accountants, finance and business related professionals and students who have similar interests and ideals, are committed to professional and academic excellence, possess a sense of professional and civic responsibility, and are concerned with enhancing opportunities for minorities in the accounting, finance and business related professions. Academic Exploration Africana Studies Department | The Africana Studies Department is a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary field of inquiry which is focused upon the social and cultural histories, politics, literatures, economics, environment, and psychology of African Diasporas' people in the Americas, Africa, and the Caribbean. Its broad educational goal is to document and disseminate a specialized body of knowledge about the Pan-African experience with a special emphasis on human equality in American society. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms