Scholarship And Internship Opportunities - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home All of Us Latinidad Scholarship And Internship Opportunities Menu menu Menu AAPI Black Men Black Women Inclusive Identity Latinidad Scholarship And Internship Opportunities University Resources Native American & Indigenous Pride Racial Climate Survey Scholarship and Internship Opportunities Scholarships Fall 2023 Scholarships Association of Cuban-American Engineers Scholarship Foundation (ACAESF) ACAESF provides scholarships awards between $500 and $2,500 to undergraduate and graduate Cuban or other Hispanic heritage students. You’ll need a minimum GPA of 3.0 to qualify. You can win this scholarship award for up to three years. Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (CHCI) Database of scholarships The CHCI is a nationwide non-profit and non-partisan 501(C)3 organization based in Washington D.C. CHCI promotes education attainment, career development experiences, and offers a diverse network of opportunities and leadership roles. FastWeb Fastweb is a National Scholarship Database designed to simplify the scholarship search by helping students find millions of scholarships, grants, internships, and financial aid opportunities. Please create a free account and discover new opportunities. The Hispanic Scholarship Fund The Hispanic Scholarship Fund is available to Latino students of various ages — from high school seniors to graduate students. All majors of study are accepted, but there is an emphasis on STEM majors. There is also a GPA requirement of 2.5 for college students and 3.0 for high school students. Recipients can receive from $500 to $5,000. Applications open in January and are due in mid-February. La Unidad Latina Foundation Scholarship La Unidad Latina Foundation offers scholarships of $500 to $1,000 to qualified recipients. They must also be currently enrolled in a qualified master’s or bachelor’s program and maintain at least a 2.8 GPA. Students must have already completed one full year of undergraduate study. Undergraduates can major in anything, but graduate students must be pursuing one of these degrees: Master of Arts, Master of Science, Master of Public Administration/Policy, Master of Social Work, Master of Education, Master of Divinity, or Doctor of Philosophy. Applications are generally due in late October. League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) Scholarships LULAC offers a variety of scholarships for high school seniors, undergraduate and graduates college students through our educational arm, the LULAC National Educational Service Centers, Inc., a non-profit educational organization established by LULAC to provide educational programs for Hispanics and other youth. Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF) Scholarship Guide The MALDEF Scholarship Resource Guide is a free, informative guide to students, parents, and educators with an extensive list of scholarships, including many that may not inquire about immigrant status. Scholarships.com/Minority Scholarships for minority students vary in their criteria and are not limited to race or ethnicity. As multi-faceted individuals, multi-ethnic students may qualify for at least one of the listed minority scholarships. Minority scholarships are not limited to United States residents. Students outside the United States may apply as well, whether they are studying at home or abroad. Some scholarships may not even require U.S. citizenship, so be sure to check the official rules carefully when applying for scholarships. Scholarship America: The Dream Award Students who have completed at least a year of college can earn Dream Award scholarships of $5,000 to $15,000 per year, renewable for up to three years. The Dream Award is open to U.S. citizens, U.S. permanent residents (holders of a Permanent Resident Card), or individuals granted deferred action status under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA). Unigo.com/Hispanic Scholarships Unigo is the premier network for current and future college students to get to where they’re going. Unigo provides cutting-edge tools, compelling content, and essential information, empowering students to make the best decisions about their college experience. Internships Association of Latino Professional for America (ALPHA) ALPFA was the first national Latino professional association in the United States, established in Los Angeles in 1972. Throughout its 47-year history, ALPFA has experienced steady growth and demonstrated consistent value. ALPFA currently serves more than 95,000+ professional and student members across the country – a number they plan to grow aggressively to 100,000 within the next two years. In addition to networking and professional leadership development opportunities, ALPFA members have access to 50,000 paid summer internships through hundreds of Fortune 1000 corporate partners. We aspire to be the business partner of choice for companies seeking to hire and develop Latino talent. Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (CHCI) Leadership Programs The CHCI is a nationwide non-profit and non-partisan 501(C)3 organization based in Washington D.C. CHCI promotes education attainment, career development experiences, and offers a diverse network of opportunities and leadership roles. They have a number of Undergraduate Internships, Graduate Fellowships, and Alumni Opportunities. Robert Hildreth Latin America Internship Award Sponsored by the Gastón Institute, the Hildreth Award provides approximately $3,000 for travel and research in Latin American or Caribbean countries. More information at the Gastón Institute. Location: Healey Library, 10th Floor │Email:  gastoninstitute@umb.edu The HACU National Internship Program The Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, founded in 1986, is a national organization supporting Hispanic/Latino students. They offer spring, summer, and fall internships at federal agencies and private corporations provide participants direct experience in a myriad of careers in the federal and corporate sectors. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms