Umburbest - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni UMB-UR-BEST Home Umburbest Menu menu Menu About Contact Resources Services University Resources for Behavioral and Educational Skills Training at UMass Boston To ensure the health and safety of our faculty, students, staff, and surrounding community, UMass Boston will continue to operate in hybrid fashion, with some courses lodged on campus and others continuing in remote modality. Many answers about the campus's response to the coronavirus can be found in our special section . Welcome to UMB-UR-BEST! UMB-UR-BEST (or University Resources for Behavioral and Educational Skills Training) is aimed at increasing mental-health support to students (graduate and undergraduate) at the University of Massachusetts Boston. <---Check out our menu options to learn more about what we do and how we might assist you, or your department! Additional resources and links you may find helpful: Resources4U Resources4U contains several carefully chosen resources for the UMass Boston community that offer support related to mental health and wellness, basic needs insecurity, academic success and remote learning, and the needs of vulnerable and marginalized groups. If you are a UMass Boston student seeking support, student resources can be found here . In addition, resources for staff, faculty, advisor, or other person seeking to support students can be found here. Please note that many of these offices on campus are providing support on-campus and virtually: Dean of Students Office: dean.students@umb.edu , 617.287.5800 Campus police provide 24/7 assistance and can be reached at 617.287.1212. The Counseling Center offers 24/7 support and can be reached at 617.287.5690. University Health Services —telemedicine services: 617.287.5660 Ross Center (Disability Services) : 617.287.7430 Academic Support Services Reading, Writing, and Study Strategies Center. For students who are interested in online 1-1 tutoring, please schedule an online appointment on their website: https://umb-asp.mywconline.com .  More information is available on our blog . Graduate Writing Center Subject Tutoring and Math Resource Center Off-Campus Living : 617.287.6373 International Student and Scholar Office : isss@umb.edu Resources for Undocumented Students U-ACCESS (Urban and Off-Campus Support Services): u-access@umb.edu or 781.951.2724 If you require assistance identifying mental health and academic support resources, please contact us (umb-ur-best@umb.edu) and we can help connect you to different resources and sources of support, or we may be able to help your office or department develop new resources. Watch the video below to learn more about our mission and the services we provide to the campus community: UMB-UR-BEST 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms