Student Financial Responsibility Agreement - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Bursar Financial Responsibility Agreement Student Financial Responsibility Agreement Menu menu Menu Plan to Pay Financial Responsibility Agreement Student Financial Responsibility Agreement FAQ Student Financial Responsibility Agreement Tuition & Fees Payment Information Student Refunds Health Insurance Bookstore Advance Student Tax Information Forms Assistance Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass Boston Student Financial Responsibility Agreement I fully understand and agree that my authorization to enroll and continue to register for courses at the University of Massachusetts Boston is expressly conditioned on my acceptance of the terms and conditions set forth below.  In exchange for the opportunity to enroll at the University of Massachusetts Boston, to receive educational services, and for other valuable consideration, I agree to the following terms and conditions: PAYMENT OF FEES/PROMISE TO PAY I understand and agree that when I register for any class or receive any service at the University of Massachusetts Boston, I am agreeing to accept full responsibility to pay all tuition, fees and other associated costs assessed as a result of my registration and/or receipt of services. I also agree that such services represent the full UMass Boston experience, regardless of the modality in which they are received by me.  I further understand and agree that my registration and acceptance of these terms constitutes a promissory note agreement (i.e., a financial obligation in the form of an educational loan as defined by the U.S. Bankruptcy Code at 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(8)) in which the University of Massachusetts Boston is providing me educational services, deferring some or all of my payment obligation for those services, and I promise to pay for all assessed tuition, fees and other associated costs by the published or assigned due date. FINANCIAL AID I understand that aid described as “estimated” on my Financial Aid Award does not represent actual or guaranteed payment but is an estimate of the aid I may receive if I meet all requirements stipulated by that aid program. I understand that my Financial Aid Award is contingent upon my continued enrollment and attendance in each class upon which my financial aid eligibility was calculated. If I drop any class before completion, I understand and agree that my financial aid eligibility may decrease and some or all of the financial aid awarded to me may be revoked.  If some or all of my financial aid is revoked because I dropped or failed to attend class, I agree to repay all revoked aid that was disbursed to my account and resulted in a credit balance that was refunded to me. I agree to allow financial aid I receive to pay any and all charges assessed to my account at the University of Massachusetts Boston such as tuition, all mandatory fees, meal plans, student health insurance, parking pass, bookstore charges, or any other amount, in accordance with the terms of the aid. WITHDRAWAL/FAILURE TO WITHDRAW I understand and agree that if I drop or withdraw from some or all of the classes for which I register, I will be responsible for paying all or a portion of tuition and fees in accordance with the published Cancellation of Tuition & Fees Schedule available at UMB Bursar website . I have read the terms and conditions of the published Cancellation of Tuition & Fees Schedule and understand those terms are incorporated herein by reference. I further understand that my failure to attend class or receive a bill does not absolve me of my financial responsibility as described above. DELINQUENT ACCOUNT/COLLECTION Financial Hold: I understand and agree that if I fail to pay my student account bill or any monies due and owing the University of Massachusetts Boston by the scheduled due date, the University of Massachusetts Boston may place a financial hold on my student account, preventing me from registering for future classes, or receiving my diploma. Late Payment Charge: I understand and agree that if I fail to pay any balance on my student account or any other monies due and owing the University of Massachusetts Boston by the scheduled due date, the University of Massachusetts Boston may assess late payment and/or finance charges, as noted under the UMB Payment Information website on the past due portion of my student account until my past due account is paid in full. Collection Agency Fees: I understand and agree that if I fail to pay any balance on my student account or any other monies due and owing the University of Massachusetts Boston by the scheduled due date or fail to make acceptable payment arrangements to bring my account current, my account will become delinquent, and the University of Massachusetts Boston may refer my account to a collection agency. I further understand that if the University of Massachusetts Boston refers my student account balance to a collection agency, a collection fee will be assessed in addition to the balance owed.  The collection fee will be calculated at the maximum amount permitted by applicable law but not to exceed 33% of the amount outstanding.  For purposes of this provision, the collection agency may be a debt collection company or an attorney.  If a lawsuit is filed to recover an outstanding balance, I shall be responsible for any costs the university incurs associated with the lawsuit such as court costs or other applicable costs. COMMUNICATION Method of Communication: I understand and agree that the University of Massachusetts Boston uses e-mail as an official method of communication with me, and that therefore I am responsible for reading the e-mails I receive from the University of Massachusetts Boston on a timely basis. Updating Contact Information: I understand and agree that I am responsible for keeping the University of Massachusetts Boston records up to date with my current physical addresses, email addresses, and phone numbers by following the procedure at UMB Wiser Student Help.  Upon leaving the University of Massachusetts Boston for any reason, it is my responsibility to provide the University of Massachusetts Boston with updated contact information for purposes of continued communication regarding any amounts that remain due and owing to the University of Massachusetts Boston. Contact: I authorize the University of Massachusetts Boston and its agents and contractors to contact me at my current and any future cellular phone number(s), email address(es) or wireless device(s) regarding my delinquent student account(s)/loan(s), any other debt I owe to the University of Massachusetts Boston, or to receive general information from the University of Massachusetts Boston. I authorize the University of Massachusetts Boston and its agents and contractors to use automated telephone dialing equipment, artificial or pre-recorded voice or text messages, and personal calls and emails, in their efforts to contact me. Furthermore, I understand that I may withdraw my consent to call my cellular phone using automated telephone dialing equipment by submitting my request in writing to Associate Bursar at the University of Massachusetts Boston or in writing to the applicable contractor or agent contacting me on behalf of the University of Massachusetts Boston. METHOD OF BILLING I understand that the University of Massachusetts Boston conducts business electronically.  This includes but is not limited to receiving billing information through my online student account at UMB Wiser. I understand and agree that I am responsible for viewing and paying my student account by the scheduled due dates.  My failure to view my online student account does not absolve me of any financial obligations owed under this agreement. BILLING ERRORS I understand that administrative, clerical or technical billing errors do not absolve me of my financial responsibility to pay the correct amount of tuition, fees and other associated financial obligations assessed as a result of my registration at the University of Massachusetts Boston.  Should I believe my account to have any billing errors, I agree to contact the Bursar at the University of Massachusetts Boston as soon as possible after noting the error. RETURNED PAYMENTS/FAILED PAYMENT AGREEMENTS If a payment made to my student account is returned by the bank for any reason, I agree to repay the original amount of the payment plus a returned payment fee as noted under the UMB Payment Information website . I understand that multiple returned payments and/or failure to comply with the terms of any payment plan or agreement I sign with the University of Massachusetts Boston may result suspension of my eligibility to register for future classes at the University of Massachusetts Boston. STUDENT AGE I understand and agree that if I am younger than the applicable age of majority when I execute this agreement that the educational services provided by the University of Massachusetts Boston are a necessity or essential service, and I am contractually obligated under this agreement pursuant to the “doctrine of necessaries.” IRS FORM 1098-T I agree to provide my Social Security number (SSN) or taxpayer identification number (TIN) to the University of Massachusetts Boston upon request as required by Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations for Form 1098-T reporting purposes. If I fail to provide my SSN or TIN to the University of Massachusetts Boston, I agree to pay any and all IRS fines assessed as a result of my missing SSN/TIN.  Additionally, I consent to receive my annual IRS Form 1098-T, Tuition Statement, electronically from the University of Massachusetts Boston (if available).  I understand that I can withdraw this consent or request a paper copy by following the instructions on the UMB Student Tax Information page. GOVERNING LAW/FORUM I understand and agree that this agreement is entered into in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and the laws of the Commonwealth, without giving effect to its conflicts of law principles, govern all matters arising out of or relating to this agreement and all of the transactions it contemplates, including, without limitation, its validity, interpretation, construction, performance and enforcement. I agree that any action arising out of or relating to this agreement or the relationship between the myself and the University of Massachusetts Boston shall be brought in the state courts of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which shall have exclusive jurisdiction thereof.  I expressly consent to the jurisdiction of the state courts of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and waive any claim or defense that such forum is not convenient or proper.  This paragraph shall not be construed to limit any other legal rights of myself or the University of Massachusetts Boston. SEVERABILITY If any provision, term, or clause of this agreement is declared illegal, unenforceable, or ineffective in a legal forum with competent jurisdiction to do so, this agreement shall be deemed severable, and all other provisions, terms, and clauses of the agreement will remain valid and binding on the Parties. ENTIRE AGREEMENT This agreement supersedes all prior understandings, representations, negotiations and correspondence between the student and the University of Massachusetts Boston, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the matters described, and shall not be modified or affected by any course or dealing or course of performance.  The University of Massachusetts Boston may modify this agreement if I sign the modification.  Any modification is specifically limited to those policies and/or terms addressed in the modification. Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms