Publications - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Women in Politics & Public Policy Research Publications Menu menu Menu About Womens Political Leadership Events Cwppp New England Women’s Policy Initiative Research Publications Resources Support Publications Access all publications from the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy on the UMB ScholarWorks page. The center’s policy-relevant research publications provide analyses on current policy issues and public leadership topics using an intersectional, anti-racist approach. Check Out Our Latest Release! Estimating the Impacts of Legislation to Expand Affordable Quality Child Care and Early Education in Massachusetts: Initial Findings on Utilization, Employment, and Financial Assistance The UMass Boston Early Education CUSP (Cost and Usage Simulator Project) is led by the Institute for Early Education Leadership and Innovation and the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy. A multidisciplinary team that includes Center Director Dr. Nsiah-Jefferson and Research & Policy Director Dr. Kelleher designed a simulator and uses it to produce current, relevant, accurate, and responsive estimates about the key impacts of proposed legislation to expand access to affordable, quality child care and early education. Check out the initial Research Brief and Executive Summary Featured Publication A New Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Role for the Town of Acton: Final Report Early in 2022, UMass Boston’s Edward J. Collins Center for Public Management and Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy jointly launched a study to help guide the implementation of a new diversity, equity, and inclusion position for the town of Acton, Massachusetts. The final report, released in June 2022, offered major findings and recommendations to inform the development and hiring of the new role and help ensure the role’s effectiveness and success. Check out the final report. Contact For more information about the center’s research agenda, activities, and/or publications, please contact Christa Kelleher, Research and Policy Director, at 617.287.5530 or christa.kelleher@umb.edu . Like the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Follow us on Twitter Watch a video about the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Healey Library, 10th Floor, Room 12 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.5541 Maps & Directions Connect Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join our mailing list See Also Graduate Certificate in Women in Politics and Public Policy Sign up for news from the Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy https://scholarworks.umb.edu/wppp/ UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms