Marine Science & Technology MS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Marine Science & Technology MS Home Academics Majors & Programs Marine Science & Technology MS Request Info Loading... Conserve the oceans, accelerate your career. UMass Boston's Marine Science & Technology MS is an interdisciplinary master's that prepares you for a practical career in the ocean sciences or to continue on and earn your PhD. The oceans are part of the thin, outer shell of the Earth and marine science is the study of this envelope, from the deep sea to shallow coastal oceans: their biology, chemistry, geology and physics together make marine science a richly interdisciplinary science. Master this field with the guidance of our renowned faculty experts. In the Marine Science and Technology MS with UMass Boston, you will: Develop a comprehensive understanding of marine science concepts, including marine ecosystems, oceanography, marine geology, and marine biology Gain expertise in the methods and techniques used to study and analyze the marine environment Acquire practical skills in marine technology applications, including the use of oceanographic instruments, data collection, and analysis methods Learn to navigate marine-specific software and technologies used in marine research, exploration, and resource management Cultivate critical thinking, problem-solving, and analytical skills to address real-world marine science and technology challenges Apply scientific methods and data analysis techniques to investigate marine phenomena, interpret findings, and communicate results effectively to both scientific and non-scientific audiences Career Possibilities Conduct research on various aspects of the marine environment, such as marine ecology, oceanography, or marine resource management as a marine scientist. Study marine organisms and their interactions with the environment as a marine biologist. Or, Promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources as a marine conservationist.These are just a few of the possibilities. Become a(n): Marine Biologist Marine Conservationist Marine Technology Specialist Marine Educator Marine Policy Analyst Start Your Application How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Test Scores: GRE Letters of Recommendation: 2 Other: Faculty advisor commitment, 3.0 undergraduate GPA Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Course Requirements Core Courses (9 to 10 Credits) Complete three from below. ENVSCI 630 - Biological Oceanography 3 Credit(s) ENVSCI 640 - The Chemistry of Natural Waters 3 Credit(s) or ENVSCI 641 - The Geochemistry of a Habitable Planet 3 Credit(s) and ENVSCI 642 - Laboratory for the Geochemistry of a Habitable Planet 1 Credit(s) ENVSCI 650 - Physical Oceanography 3 Credit(s) School for the Environment Seminar (2 Credits) All MS students must attend seminar each week throughout their enrollment in the program but will receive no more than 2 credits for seminar. ENVSCI 791 - Seminar in Environmental Sciences 1 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Program Requirements Complete 30 credits from at least ten courses including three core courses, one School for the Environment seminar, one thesis course, and 12 to 13 credits of electives. Capstone: Complete a master’s thesis. Students may apply for transfer to the Marine Science and Technology (PhD) program upon completion of core course requirements. Minimum grade: No courses with grade below B can be applied to the program. Students who earn B- in two courses will be considered no longer in good standing and may be dismissed from the program. Students who receive a grade below C in any graduate course will be dismissed from the program. Grading basis: Courses must be taken graded unless the course is only offered on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 is required from all courses applied toward the program. Residency: Graduate course credits earned at another institution, as a non-degree student, or in another department may only be applied to the program with approval from the dissertation committee and graduate program director. Course level: No more than one course taken at UMass Boston at the 300/400-level may be applied toward the program with approval of the thesis/project advisor and graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Six years. Contact Graduate Program Director Michael Tlusty michael.tlusty [at] umb.edu (617) 287-5285 School for the Environment Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our School for the Environment. Explore Now Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms