Mashpee Harbor Plan - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Urban Harbors Institute Mashpee Harbor Plan Menu menu Menu About UHI Team Projects News E-Newsletter Sign Up Mashpee Harbor Management Plan The Town of Mashpee, led by the Harbor Management Committee and the Department of Natural Resources, with support from the Urban Harbors Institute (UHI) at the University of Massachusetts Boston, is embarking on the development of the Mashpee Harbor Management Plan. The Mashpee Harbor Committee met for the first time in more than 20 years at the end of November to discuss the development of the plan. Read more about the meeting here . Additionally, the Request for the Notice to Proceed with the preparation of a Municipal Harbor Plan was published in the Environmental Monitor on February 8, 2023. The Committee is currently engaging stakeholders and the public to solicit input for the plan. On Saturday, March 11th, more than 50 people turned out to provide input on the town’s harbor management plan. A copy of the presentation is available here. If you were unable to attend, please feel free to send along comments via email. If you would like to be included on email updates about the plan, please provide your email via this google form. For more information, please contact Allison Novelly at Allison.Novelly@umb.edu . Urban Harbors Institute 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 617.287.5570 Maps & Directions UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms