- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News 2020 UMass Boston Student Earns Goldwater Scholarship - Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Student Earns Goldwater Scholarship 03/31/2020 |
    Elis Mullins Cynthia Schofield has recently become the third UMass Boston student to receive the prestigious Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship. This is the second year in a row that UMass Boston students have become Goldwater Scholars. Cynthia Schofield is UMass Boston's third Goldwater Scholar in two years. “ UMass Boston is so proud of Cynthia Schofield. She epitomizes everything we stand for in research excellence. ” The scholarship is given annually to college sophomores and juniors who demonstrate excellence in natural science, engineering, and mathematics. From an estimated pool of over 5,000 applicants, 396 received a scholarship this year. “It is truly humbling and such an incredible honor to be recognized in this way,” noted Schofield. “A significant amount of the credit goes to the opportunities I have had access to at UMass Boston.” A junior biochemistry major with a minor in psychology, Schofield is awaiting approval for an individualized second major in cellular and molecular neuroscience. An Honors College student, she is an Initiative for Maximizing Student Development (IMSD) Scholar, and works in the neurobiology lab at MIT’s McGovern Institute for Brain Research with Ann Graybiel. There, Schofield studies the molecular mechanisms that control how we make decisions and form habits, especially regarding how flawed neural signaling can contribute to conditions like drug addiction. “UMass Boston is so proud of Cynthia Schofield,” said Interim Chancellor Katherine Newman. “She epitomizes everything we stand for in research excellence, the impact of extraordinary mentoring, and the innovative brilliance of our students. I cannot wait to visit the lab she will found after she completes her PhD!” Before she came to UMass Boston, Schofield worked as a mental health counselor in a facility for addiction and mental illness and became aware that treatment plans addressed symptoms rather than the roots of an illness, something she wants to change in her research. “It was that frustration and desire to better understand the neurobiology behind the disease that drove me to return to school to pursue research in this field,” Schofield said. Her plans for the future include a PhD in molecular neuroscience and a neurobiology lab of her own, where she can research the molecular underpinnings of motivation and reward processing as they relate to neurodevelopmental and addiction disorders. The 2020-21 Goldwater Scholars include 50 mathematics and computer science majors, 287 natural sciences majors, and 59 engineering majors. The Goldwater Foundation is a federally endowed agency established by Public Law 99-661 on November 14, 1986. The Scholarship Program honoring Senator Barry Goldwater was designed to foster and encourage outstanding students to pursue research careers in the fields of the natural sciences, engineering, and mathematics. Including the 2020 awards, $71M has been awarded to over 9,047 students. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s 10 colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms