Nada.Ali - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Nada.Ali Nada Ali Department: GISD - Dean's Office Title: Assistant Professor Send Email Areas of Expertise Gender and development; governance; human rights; militarization and post-conflict settings; HIV/AIDS; feminist theories and methodologies; the Middle East and Africa, including Sudan, South Sudan, Nigeria, Zambia, Kenya, and Egypt Degrees PhD, Government, Development Studies Stream, University of Manchester, UK MA, Political Science, American University in Cairo, Egypt BA (Hon.), Political Science, University of Khartoum, Sudan Additional Information Nada Mustafa Ali is a scholar, practitioner and an activist whose scholarship spans the fields of comparative politics,  women's, gender, and feminist studies, development studies, and African and Middle Eastern studies. She has written extensively in both English and Arabic. She is the author of Gender, Race and Sudan Exile Politics , and of numerous book chapters, journal articles, and academic and policy reports. Nada is a Fellow of the Rift Valley Institute, and an Advisory Board Member of the African Feminist Initiative. Before joining the Faculty of the Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Department, Nada has taught at several universities including the New School for Social Research and Clark University. She has been a visiting scholar or research fellow at the Five College Women's Studies Research Center, the International Centre for Research on Women, and at African Studies at Fordham University. She has given talks and lectures in numerous universities and policy and activist in and outside the United States. In addition to her academic career, Nada has worked as a researcher or consultant at a number of international and grassroots organizations and UN agencies. She has worked as the Women's Program Coordinator at the Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies in Egypt, and as the Africa Women's Rights Researcher at Human Rights Watch. She has consulted for a range of organizations and agencies including UN Women, UNDP, UNFPA, US Institute of Peace, the Small Arms Survey, Al-Manar, and the South Sudan Women's Empowerment Network. Current Research Gender, Conflict, and the politics of Peacebuilding in Sudan and South Sudan Gender Social Media, Social Movements and Social Change Gender and HIV/AIDS Selected Recent Publications Gender, Race and Sudan's Exile Politics: Do We All Belong to this Country? (Lexington Books, 2015). Sudanese Women's Groups on Facebook and #Civil Disobedience: Nairat or Thairat? (Radiant or Revolutionary?). African Studies Review, ( 62(2), 2019. 103-126. Women, Gender, and Human Rights. In Srikanth, R and Chowdhury, E. (eds.) Interdisciplinary Approaches to Human Rights . (Routledge, 2019). Courses Taught at UMass Boston Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Department Introduction to Human Rights Gender, Development and Globalization Gender in Global Context Research Seminar Women, Culture and Identity Women in African Cultures Advanced Topics in Human Rights Honors College Global Health and Inequalities Gender, Conflict and Refugees School for Global Inclusion and Social Development International Organizations and Social Development MA/PhD level' McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies Gender and Human Security PhD level. Courses Taught Elsewhere Undergraduate Introduction to Feminist Theory Gender and Conflict: Women, Peach and Security in the Middle East and Africa Refugees and 'Forced' Migration MA Level Advanced Issues in International Development: International Feminist Thinking and Action Development Theory Gender, Politics and Development in Africa Theorizing Women, Gender and Development Feminist Qualitative Research Methods UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms