Sharon.Horne - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Sharon.Horne Sharon Horne Department: Counseling & School Psychology Title: Grad Prog Dir/Professor Location: Wheatley Hall Floor 02 Phone: 617.287.7495 Send Email Additional Information Sharon G. Horne, PhD, conducts research on LGBTQ psychological health and international psychology concerns. Her LGBTQ+ Research Team , co-led with Heidi M. Levitt, PhD, a faculty member in clinical psychology at UMass Boston, focuses on improving and expanding the lives of LGBT+ individuals through study of issues relevant to LGBTQ+ experience. Within a social justice framework, we explore LGBTQ health and wellness from both qualitative and quantitative methodologies. Main project focus: The impact of social policy (e.g., equality bills, LGBTQ+ affirmative guidelines) and anti-LGBTQ+ legislation on the psychological well-being of LGBTQ+ persons and communities. Recent articles: Horne, S.G., McGinley, M., Yel, N., & Maroney, M.R. (2022). The stench of bathroom bills and anti-transgender legislation: Referendum-related anxiety and depression among transgender, nonbinary and cisgender LGBQ people. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 69 (1), 1-13. Horne, S.G., Johnson, T., Yel, N., Maroney, M. R., & McGinley, M. (2021). Unequal rights between LGBTQ Parents living in the U.S.: The association of minority stress to relationship satisfaction and parental stress. Couple and Family Psychology: Research and Practice, 11 (2), 141-160. The role of international psychology in LGBTQ+ lives and communities, including therapist competencies in working with LGBTQ+ clients. Recent articles: Horne, S. G., & McGinley, M. (2022). A global export, a local commodity: SOCE/GICE in international contexts. In D. Haldeman & M. Hendricks (Eds.), The Case Against Conversion Therapy . American Psychological Association. Horne, S. G. (2020). The challenges and promises of transnational LGBTQ psychology: Somewhere over and under the rainbow. American Psychologist , 75(9), 1358–1371. Horne, S. G., & Manalastas, E. (2020). Psychology and the global human rights agenda on sexual orientation and gender identity. In N. Rubin & R. Flores (Eds.), The Cambridge Handbook of Psychology and Human Rights *. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press. *Book Finalist for the PROSE Award presented by the Association of American Publishers Awards for Professional and Scholarly Excellence. *Recipient of the 2021 APA Division of International Psychology Ursula Gielen Book Award Horne, S. G., Maroney, M. R., Nel, J., Chaparro, R., & Manalastas, E. (2019). Emergence of a transnational LGBTI psychology: Commonalities and challenges in advocacy and activism. American Psychologist , 74, 8, 967–986. Horne, S. G., & White, L. (2019). The return of repression: Mental health concerns of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender People in Russia. In N. Nakamura & C. H. Logie (Eds.), LGBTQ Mental Health: International Perspectives and Experiences (pp. 75-88). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. Current Projects LGBTQ+ affirmative therapy among mental health professionals in Colombia, South Africa, the Philippines, Iran, Korea, Russia, and other countries LGBTQ+ Client experiences of therapy in Colombia, South Africa, and the Philippines LGBTQ+ activist development and experience (particularly in the U.S. South and globally) Transnational LGBTQ+ policies and changes and impact on LGBTQ+ lives (e.g., marriage equality in Taiwan with Ph.D. candidate Chia-Po Cheng) Psychological impact of elections and state-wide referenda on LGBTQ+ experience LGBTQ+ immigration and refugee concerns (e.g., with Ph.D. candidate Jonathan Briseño) Other projects have focused on same-sex couples and relationship factors; internalized heterosexism and mental health factors; spirituality and religious concerns; parenting and family concerns; experiences of psychotherapy Dr. Horne is a fellow of the American Psychological Association in Division 17 (Counseling Psychology), Division 44 (Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity) and Division 52 (International Psychology). She was an Open Society Foundations Academic Fellow with the Psychology Department at American University of Central Asia in Kyrgyzstan 2005-2015. Dr. Horne was an American Psychological Association Representative for the International Network of LGBT Concerns (IPsyNet) from 2012-2022, and she chaired the development of the International Psychology Statement and Commitment on LGBTQ+ Concerns . Dr. Horne is a Global Fulbright Scholar (2018-2023), and in 2020, she won the Award for Distinguished Contributions to the International Advancement of Psychology from the American Psychological Association (APA) in recognition for her transnational work. Click here to view CV UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms