Center for the Humanities, Culture & Society - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Center for the Humanities, Culture & Society Home Center for the Humanities, Culture & Society Menu menu Menu Faculty Mission Welcome to the Center for the Humanities, Culture & Society (CHCS)! More than ever, the humanities have a vital role to play in ensuring that critical thinking and analysis remain at the core of university life. Through the CHCS, we aim to make visible the work of humanities scholars toward solving pressing problems and confronting enduring social realities. In 2022-2023, the Center for the Humanities, Culture, and Society will focus its events around the idea of “Break,” a term that captures the desire to break down structures and begin anew as well as the need to reinscribe the separation between work and life. With “Break,” we want to explore radical new ways of living, working, learning, and writing; to imagine departures from entrenched structures of organizing social and political life; and to reflect on how and why we might break from disciplinary methods. What does it mean to take a break? For whom is this possible, and where can we turn for models of breaking and braking?  Our programming will focus on how humanities methods can illuminate histories and provide analytical frames that help us see our own campus, city, and the world beyond with more precision and from a wider range of perspectives. We look forward to seeing you at our events and hearing your thoughts. Sari Edelstein & Aaron Lecklider Co-Directors, Center for the Humanities, Culture, and Society Center for the Humanities, Culture & Society Wheatley Hall 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.3130 Maps & Directions Connect Get directions to the UMass Boston campus Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join our Email List For more information, contact the CHCS office Giving to UMass Boston Expand understanding of the humanities through a gift to the Center for the Humanities, Culture, and Society. Give Now UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms