Planning - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Microcredentials Planning Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Planning Development Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Guidance for Planning a Microcredential Microcredential programs are developed in the same way as all other educational programs that are part of the curriculum. Conversations should be had with your college leadership about where a microcredential fits within your unit and how it complements the other existing offerings within your college, school or department. Identifying the Needs When planning a microcredential program of study within your college or other university unit, it is important to focus on the following key questions: What needs are you trying to meet? What skills are you trying to develop? Who are the learners? Perform Market Research Decisions to develop microcredential programs should be based on evidence of market demand and aligned with the campus mission and the goals of your department. Ensure microcredential programs complement the university's overall educational mission and strategic goals. Focus on building microcredentials that build skills not addressed by existing programs at your department, or programs that extend learning to a wider audience rather than only the traditional learners. Collaborate with Career Services and relevant industries to identify in-demand skills and ensure program content reflects real-world needs. Survey students to learn what skills they are lacking/looking to develop. Labor market resources: https://www.mass.gov/orgs/department-of-economic-research https://www.umb.edu/academics/seas/career-services/career-readiness/ Identify the Target Audience Microcredentials are an opportunity to develop new skills for a variety of audiences. However, the audience has to be clearly identified for each program. Some possibilities include: Professional development training for university employees that addresses a gap in the university services Non-credit programs that extend learning opportunities to lifelong learners and/or the community For-credit co-curricular or extracurricular programs focused on helping existing students meet an industry need in demand. Measure, Sustain & Scale To ensure the success of your microcredentials, consider the following recommendations: Establish clear metrics: Define how you'll measure success, such as learner engagement, completion rates, and employer feedback. Plan for continuous improvement: Use data and feedback to update content, delivery methods, and assessment strategies to ensure ongoing program effectiveness. Preparing to Develop Microcredentials As you consider microcredential development, listed below are some considerations to plan ahead. Please note that currently the University does not have a system to offer courses to learners without a UMB email address. Program Listing, Approval, WISER While the details of this process are still being worked out, generally, the proposal and approval process for microcredentials is similar to the process used for other university programs.  For WISER and other administrative purposes, microcredential courses are categorized as one of the following: Academic for-credit: approval by the respective college/school leadership. Academic non-credit: expedited approval process through Curriculog. Non-academic/professional development: approved by the unit supervisor. All academic courses need to be listed on WISER to ensure an automated connection and transfer of student information to and from the Canvas LMS. Non-academic courses that do not use WISER will need forms and other systems in place to gather student information for enrollment into Canvas LMS. Please note that currently the University does not have a system to offer courses to learners without a UMB email address. UMB Emails will be required for learners. (Academic = Courses developed by Colleges and Schools. Non-Academic = Training programs by other units, for example Student Affairs, IT, the Library, etc.) Naming the Microcredential Remember, microcredentials are about “micro” learning, breaking down learning into smaller components. The name of the microcredential should be specific and clearly convey the main competency that you are looking to address. Consider using unique program titles within your programs and the university. Define the Level of Mastery Is the microcredential building foundational, intermediate or advanced level of knowledge? Clearly articulate the level of mastery of the microcredential, if it is part of a sequence providing advancement in levels of skills development. For-credit or non-credit? Plan ahead to ensure sufficient time for your microcredential to undergo the usual governance processes and be listed in WISER and the course catalogs. Pathways and Clustering Could you design a series of microcredentials that when combined yield to a higher level of mastery, i.e a larger credential? How would this be listed in WISER? Define the Modality Is the program online, face-to-face or hybrid? All modalities will need to use the Canvas LMS to track student progress and completion of microcredential requirements. Cost Is your microcredential program offered for a fee? Work with your college/unit leadership to determine the fee structure and mode of deployment. Expiration Are the knowledge/skills conveyed tied to a time-limited certification or are they permanently awarded? Does the training program need to be updated periodically? Can the microcredential be renewed and what are the requirements for renewal? Description/Marketing Plan to market the microcredential to the target audience using the resources available to the University. Faculty Involvement Faculty engagement in developing and delivering microcredentials is essential to leverage expertise and ensure program quality. Microcredential Development Once your unit has determined that it wants to move forward with development of microcredential programs, and completes the necessary administrative steps to get the program approved, the development process can begin in partnership with Learning Design Services. Microcredential Development Guide Questions? Reach out to Tina.chang@umb.edu or rrezarta.agimi@umb.edu Earn a Microcredential Enroll in the Teaching and Learning Online course on Canvas to learn about teaching online and earn the first microcredential on the UMass Boston Canvas Credentials system. Enroll in the TLO Now UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms