Meet the Provost - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Provost's Office Meet the Provost Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Academic Integrity Academic Quality Assessment & Development (AQUAD) Annual Faculty Report (AFR) Centers & Institutes Central Business Unit Contact Credit Hour Policy Department Chairs & Administrators Forms & Policies Intercampus Programs Master Academic Calendar Meet the Provost Meet the Dean of Faculty Provost's Staff Student Spotlight on Academic Affairs Meet the Provost Joseph B. Berger, Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Joseph B. Berger is a renowned and award-winning scholar whose work focuses on higher education policy, organization and leadership, the impact of higher education on key stakeholders, and the development of higher education in various national contexts. He has authored dozens of journal articles, book chapters, and research reports and has served on the editorial boards for several top journals. He has received more than $62 million in funding for his work from agencies and foundations such as the National Science Foundation (NSF), United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Trefler Foundation, Ford Foundation, and the Nellie Mae Education Foundation. Internationally, he has provided leadership for projects in countries such as Malawi, China, Russia, Palestine, Pakistan, and Afghanistan. Dr. Berger also served as the chair of the Global Higher Education and Research (GHEAR) Initiative for the Worldwide Universities Network. He has been honored with several national awards for his scholarship from associations such as the Association for the Study of Higher Education (ASHE), American College Personnel Association (ACPA), National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA), and the Phi Kappa Phi National Honor Society. Dr. Berger has nearly 20 years of strategic academic leadership experience in which he has been instrumental in developing innovative academic programs, enhancing faculty development, improving opportunities for inclusive student success, building improved administrative infrastructure, promoting sponsored research, cultivating mission-driven fundraising, engaging community partners, promoting international collaboration, and championing social justice. Provost Berger has been a member of the UMass Boston community since 2017 when he was appointed the dean of the College of Education and Human Development, where also holds an appointment as professor of education. He previously served as the senior associate dean in the College of Education at UMass Amherst, where he was also the director of the Center for International Education. Before his more than two decades of experience in the UMass system, he was a member of the faculty at the University of New Orleans. He earned a BA in Anthropology and Sociology from Lawrence University, Appleton, Wis.; an MA in College Student Personnel from Bowling Green State University; and a PhD in Education and Human Development, Higher Education Administration, from Vanderbilt University. Contact: Joseph.Berger@umb.edu Connect Office of the Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 617.287.5600 provost@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms