Applied Linguistics - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Applied Linguistics Home Liberal Arts Departments Applied Linguistics Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Faculty & Staff Research & Impact Student Resources Art & Art History Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Welcome to the Applied Linguistics Department UMass Boston's Applied Linguistics Department has degrees that are available on campus and online. Explore offerings in theoretical linguistics, applied linguistics, and interdisciplinary areas of psycholinguistics and sociolinguistics. Develop a thorough understanding of the linguistic, cultural, and ideological considerations that govern language acquisition and use. Emerge with deep knowledge of the diversity of issues inherent in the study of language and be prepared to teach and conduct research. Request Info Apply Academic Programs Graduate Programs Applied Linguistics, MA (Online and On Campus) Applied Linguistics, PhD Professional Development Dual Language Certificate About Our Department UMass Boston's Applied Linguistics MA is available on campus and online. The degree program includes concentrations in ESL & Bilingual Education, and foreign language pedagogy, which includes English as a Foreign Language. On-campus we also offer a Latin track in collaboration with the Department of Classics. This degree offers teachers a chance to combine the further study of Latin with coursework in theories of language acquisition. For UMass Boston undergraduate students we also offer the option for an accelerated BA/MA . If you are a UMass Boston junior or senior and you're interested in our accelerated program, please contact Dr. Etienne . Courses are offered in basic theoretical linguistics, applied linguistics, and interdisciplinary areas of psycholinguistics and sociolinguistics. These courses provide students with a thorough understanding of the linguistic, cultural, and ideological considerations that govern language acquisition and use. The program is thus designed to enable students to understand the diversity of issues inherent in the study of language so that they are well prepared to teach and do research in applied linguistics. Students have the opportunity to conduct research, work with community based organizations or prepare to teach in various contexts, such as public schools, K-12, adult education, and language schools in the United States and abroad. Our campus program offers three types of graduate assistantships: teaching, research, and administrative. Nearly 25% of our students come from outside the United States, contributing to a learning environment with linguistic and cultural diversity that enriches the department’s intellectual and social life. Our students also represent a variety of American minority groups. Prospective students need not have teaching experience to be considered for acceptance into the program. We also offer an MA degree online option that combines our faculty’s expertise and our long tradition of excellence in applied linguistics studies with new technologies for online delivery and eLearning. This program of studies allows students to complete a fully accredited 30-credit master's degree in two years (four semesters and summer courses) completely online and from anywhere in the world! Many of our students go on to pursue doctoral work in such fields as linguistics, education, and literacy studies. Prospective students need not have teaching experience to be considered for acceptance into the program. News Applied Linguistics Professors Awarded $2.9M for Development Program for Teachers of English Learners Five Students, Alumni Named to Fulbright US Student Program UMass Boston Student, Alumna Win Fulbright English Teaching Assistantships Resources Faculty & Staff Licensure Alumni Centers and Institutes Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms