Global Inclusion & Social Development PhD - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Global Inclusion & Social Development PhD Home Academics Majors & Programs Global Inclusion & Social Development PhD Request Info Loading... Become an expert in policy solutions to improve the lives of global populations. UMass Boston's Global Inclusion & Social Development PhD program examines how to deepen inclusion and social development, from the local to the global level. For their doctoral degrees, students conduct rigorous original research around the world and in the United States, adding to existing knowledge in meaningful ways so as to affect the lives of marginalized populations and make meaningful policy change. Complex issues require flexible and creative solutions. Our PhD program examines the interrelationships among health, wellness, social development, political participation, organizational behavior, and economic empowerment in the context of vulnerability. Our transdisciplinary approach allows students to think outside of traditional academic silos and engage in cutting-edge methodologies that produce original research outcomes. Upon completion of their degrees, students work on policy, research, and education in universities; national and international nonprofits; civil society organizations; bilateral and multi-lateral institutions; local, regional, and national governments; and the for-profit sector. In all these roles, they increase inclusion and improve social development regionally, nationally, and globally. Attend an Info Session Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: A minimum, cumulative GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale (or international equivalent) in all undergraduate work, though an exception may be made based on the holistic strength of the application A bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited U.S. institution of recognized standing or an international equivalent at the time of enrollment Official transcripts for all institutions where you have earned more than 6 credits: Applicants who completed the majority of their undergraduate coursework outside of the United States are typically required to submit official TOEFL, IELTS, PTE, or Duolingo English proficiency test score Resume or curriculum vitae Statement of Purpose Two (2) letters of recommendation Two (2) writing samples Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: February 1 for fall Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Program Cost Information: For additional information regarding tuition and fees, please visit the Bursar’s Office or send an email to Bursar@umb.edu . Please refer to Graduate Student Financial Aid for more information on financial aid. Curriculum - Post-Bachelor's Track Core Required Courses (15 Credits) GISD 601 - Current and Historical Perspectives on Global Inclusion and Social Development 3 Credit(s) GISD 605 - International Responses to Social Inclusion 3 Credit(s) GISD 606 - Research and Evaluation in Diverse Settings: Methods and Implications 3 Credit(s) GISD 801 - Innovations Seminar 3 Credit(s) GISD 802 - Social Innovations in Domestic Settings Seminar 3 Credit(s) Core Electives (9 Credits) Complete three from below. GISD 608 - Ethics and Professionalism in Global Inclusion and Social Development 3 Credit(s) GISD 609 - Justice: A Global Transdisciplinary Framework for Culture and Innovation 3 Credit(s) GISD 610 - Strategies for Systemic Change 3 Credit(s) GISD 611 - Managing Change: Supporting Communities and Embracing Cultures 3 Credit(s) GISD 615 - State, Sovereignty and Governance for Inclusion and Social Development 3 Credit(s) GISD 616 - Population Needs and Global Practice 3 Credit(s) Concentration Courses (15 Credits) Complete five courses from one of the concentrations below. Disability Studies Concentration Gerontology Concentration Human Rights Concentration Nonprofit Management Concentration Transnational, Cultural, and Community Studies Concentration Individualized Plan of Study Concentration Advanced Electives (12 Credits) Complete four electives chosen in consultation with the graduate program director. Two electives must be research courses. Research Seminars (6 Credits) GISD 898 - Transdisciplinary Research to Practice Group 3 Credit(s) - complete two semesters Dissertation Seminars (12 Credits) GISD 899 - Dissertation Research Seminar 6 Credit(s) - complete two semesters Curriculum - Post-Master's Track Core Required Courses (15 Credits) GISD 601 - Current and Historical Perspectives on Global Inclusion and Social Development 3 Credit(s) GISD 605 - International Responses to Social Inclusion 3 Credit(s) GISD 606 - Research and Evaluation in Diverse Settings: Methods and Implications 3 Credit(s) GISD 801 - Innovations Seminar 3 Credit(s) GISD 802 - Social Innovations in Domestic Settings Seminar 3 Credit(s) Core Electives (9 Credits) Complete three from below. GISD 608 - Ethics and Professionalism in Global Inclusion and Social Development 3 Credit(s) GISD 609 - Justice: A Global Transdisciplinary Framework for Culture and Innovation 3 Credit(s) GISD 610 - Strategies for Systemic Change 3 Credit(s) GISD 611 - Managing Change: Supporting Communities and Embracing Cultures 3 Credit(s) GISD 615 - State, Sovereignty and Governance for Inclusion and Social Development 3 Credit(s) GISD 616 - Population Needs and Global Practice 3 Credit(s) Advanced Electives (12 Credits) Complete four electives chosen in consultation with the graduate program director. Two electives must be research courses. Research Seminars (6 Credits) GISD 898 - Transdisciplinary Research to Practice Group 3 Credit(s) - complete two semesters Dissertation Seminars (12 Credits) GISD 899 - Dissertation Research Seminar 6 Credit(s) - complete two semesters Graduation Criteria Post-Bachelor's Track Complete 69 credits from 21 courses including five required core courses, three elective core courses, five concentration courses, four advanced electives, two research seminars, and two dissertation seminars. Concentration: Students must choose a concentration from disability studies; gerontology; human rights; non-profit management; transnational, cultural, and community studies; or individual plan of study. Capstone: Completion of a master’s project consisting of a 7,000 to 8,000 word writing project (research paper, policy analysis project, program development project, grant application, or self-directed paper) and a public oral or poster presentation of the writing project. Doctoral candidacy: Successful completion of a written and oral comprehensive examination of content related to the core courses in the program. Dissertation: Compose and defend a dissertation based on original research Second language proficiency: Each PhD student must achieve a certain level of proficiency in a language other than their native language. American Sign Language (ASL) can be used as a second language. En Route Master’s Degree: Students may, with the approval of the program director, apply to receive an MS degree en route to the PhD. To qualify, students must complete the requirements outlined in the Global Inclusion and Social Development (MA) program. GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 is required from all courses applied toward the program. Residency: No more than six credits of graduate coursework from another institution may be applied toward the program. Transfer courses must have a grade of B or higher and be approved by the graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Eight years. Post-Master's Track Complete 54 credits from 16 courses including five required core courses, three elective core courses, four advanced electives, two research seminars, and two dissertation seminars. Doctoral candidacy: Successful completion of a written and oral comprehensive examination of content related to the core courses in the program. Dissertation: Compose and defend a dissertation based on original research Second language proficiency: Each PhD student must achieve a certain level of proficiency in a language other than their native language. American Sign Language (ASL) can be used as a second language. Students who are interested in earning a second master’s degree, or do not have a master’s degree, can complete the 69 credit post-bachelors option . GPA: A minimum GPA of 3.0 is required from all courses applied toward the program. Residency: No more than six credits of graduate coursework from another institution may be applied toward the program. Transfer courses must have a grade of B or higher and be approved by the graduate program director. Statute of limitations: Eight years. Contact Graduate Program Director Valerie Karr valerie.karr [at] umb.edu (617) 287-4336 School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our School for Global Inclusion & Social Development. Explore School for Global Inclusion & Social Development College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms