Career Success - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home All of Us Black Women Career Success Menu menu Menu AAPI Black Men Black Women Academics Career Success Community Crisis Support File A Complaint Inclusive Identity Latinidad Native American & Indigenous Pride Racial Climate Survey Career Success UMass Boston Career Services | Students in all academic areas are prepared to achieve career success in a global society. The Office of Career Services and Internships is a strategic partner with community and employer constituents to enhance the UMass Boston experience. We engage all students, alumni, and the UMass Boston campus community in a lifelong career planning process. We are dedicated to maximizing each individual’s full potential by promoting the choices and behaviors that lead to meaningful careers in a global society. Location: Campus Center, 1st Floor, Suite 1300 Email: careers@umb.edu Phone: 617-287-5519 Sponsors for Educational Opportunities (SEO) | SEO (Sponsors for Educational Opportunity) was founded in 1963 by investment banking consultant, Michael Osheowitz, as a mentoring program to help underserved students gain admission to competitive colleges and universities. He recruited executives at top firms in law, finance, and advertising to work one-on-one with his “Scholars” to help get them into colleges such as Harvard, Dartmouth, Williams, Smith, Mt. Holyoke, Columbia, and Brown as well as SUNY and CUNY schools. Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT) | MLT’s distinctive model provides the know-how, navigation systems, and network to ensure talented underrepresented minorities are able to get on and stay on the path to senior leadership. MLT’s Rising Leaders benefit from exceptional coaching, skills training, and a powerful, professional network unlike any other. MLTers join a community of peers, mentors, and senior leaders who share experience, trust, and a commitment to helping one another advance. MLT’s experience and expertise are influencing national conversations about opportunity, race, workforce diversity, and economic mobility, and proving that these vexing gaps and inequities can be overcome. INROADS | INROADS is an international organization with over 28 offices serving nearly 2,000 Interns at over 200 companies. There are three keys to success for INROADS students: Selection, Education & Training, and Performance. For over four decades, INROADS has helped businesses gain greater access to diverse talent through continuous leadership development of outstanding ethnically diverse students and placement of those students in internships at many of North America’s top corporations, firms and organizations. Black Career Women’s Network (BCWN) | BCWN is a national career development organization that assist black women cultivate professional growth. This organization provides programs, coaching, mentoring and community networking manage their careers and knowing their self-worth. The online forum was designed with the hopes of allowing black women to connect to other professionals across the world. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms