This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > GRAD > gisd > gisd 606 Research and Evaluation in Diverse Settings: Methods and Implications Course #: GISD 606 Description: This is an introductory course on quantitative and qualitative research methods and program evaluation. A particular emphasis is placed on the concept of cultural diversity and its implications for design and methods choices as well as stakeholder participation in research and evaluation. ''Cultural diversity'' refers to differences among (groups of ) individuals with respect to ethnicity, race, age, gender, disability/health, socio-economic status, and other dimensions. The course is organized into five parts. Part 1 introduces students to the scientific method, the research process and he role of ethics in conduction human subjects research. Part 2 focuses on quantitative methods, including sample selection, survey development, and basic statistical methods used in hypothesis testing. Part 3 provides an overview of qualitative methods, including participant observation, interviews, focus groups, and case study. Part 4 focuses on methods for evaluation whether or to what extent programs achieve their stated goals. Finally, Part 5 examines the various methodologies ((quantitative, qualitative, evaluation) in terms of their strengths and weaknesses for researching diverse populations and researching comparatively (cross-culturally and cross-nationally). Notes: This is a required core course for students in the master's and doctoral programs in Global Inclusion and Social Development. This course is a core course for both the Master's and Doctoral programs in Global Inclusion and Social Development. Pre Requisites: Offered in: TBA Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000