Makerspace - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Makerspace Home Makerspace Menu menu Menu 3D Printing About Us Contact Us Announcements Student Self-Service is now available! To register for in-person training sessions, please visit our MakerSpace Studio Booking page . Additionally, we invite you to visit us at M-1-401 to say hello and discover more about 3D Printing. We are open 9AM—5PM during the Fall and Spring Semesters. Summer and Winter hours are limited. Please email MakerSpace-Staff@umb.edu for availability. Educational Technology: Explore, Inquire, Engage UMass Boston's MakerSpace is an area where students, faculty, and staff from any disciplines can come together to create, collaborate, and learn. The university's MakerSpace, staffed and sponsored by Information Technology Services, offers free services to university faculty, staff, and students We encourage anyone in the UMass Boston community to visit and encourage your students to visit the studio to begin collaborating and innovating. The MakerSpace is a free service for anyone in the UMass Boston community to make, tinker, and learn! Learn more about us . Do you have an idea or project and want to meet with us to discuss how you can meet your goals? Contact us ! Meet With Us! The main goal of the MakerSpace is to improve teaching and learning at UMass Boston. Please email us at makerspace-staff@umb.edu, and let's discuss how you can incorporate MakerSpace projects into your course! Welcome to Student Self-Service! Register for our in-person training sessions, please visit our MakerSpace Studio Booking page. Additionally, we invite you to visit us at M-1-401 to say hello and discover more about 3D Printing. UMass Boston MakerSpace McCormack building, 1st floor, room 401 617.287.7098 Makerspace-Staff@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms