University Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home All of Us Native American & Indigenous University Resources Menu menu Menu AAPI Black Men Black Women Inclusive Identity Latinidad Native American & Indigenous Beyond The University Events & News Scholarship And Internship Opportunities University Resources Pride Racial Climate Survey University Resources Please review the below university-based academic and sociocultural resources and programs tailored to the Native and Indigenous student experience. Academic Paths Native American and Indigenous Studies - is a rapidly expanding, multidisciplinary academic field. The minor in NAIS at UMass Boston offers students an opportunity to engage in the subject's academic theories and practical applications. With a focus on historical and contemporary issues that impact Indigenous communities and nations in the United States and around the world, this field of study draws from numerous disciplines and programs across the College of Liberal Arts, including American studies; anthropology; English; environmental sciences; history; human rights; Latin American and Iberian studies; Latino studies;  political science; sociology; and women's, gender, and sexuality studies. Courses that explore Native experience/history Campus Connections Accordion The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (ODEI) - ODEI actively supports and advances the university’s values of diversity and inclusion, engagement, transformation, and cultural development. ODEI acts as an advocate, resource broker, educator, and dialogue facilitator to ensure that all campus community members are included, respected, and valued in all spaces. Counseling Center - The Center is committed to ensuring that all students have access to mental health and wellness care, regardless of their background or how they identify. (Free service for all enrolled students). Success Boston - Success Boston is Boston’s citywide college completion initiative. Together, the Boston Foundation, the Boston Public Schools (BPS), the City of Boston, 37 area institutions of higher education led by UMass Boston and Bunker Hill Community College, and local nonprofit partners are working to double the college completion rate for students from the BPS. UMB-UR-BEST (University Resources for Behavioral and Educational Skills Training) - UMB-UR-BEST provides coaching and workshops, emphasizing culturally responsive services sensitive to contextual factors and promoting health and well-being. The Institute for New England Native American Studies (INENAS) The Institute for New England Native American Studies (INENAS) was established at the University of Massachusetts Boston in June 2009. Our mission is to develop collaborative relationships, projects, and programs between Native American tribes of the New England region and all of the UMass campuses so that the tribes may participate in and benefit from university research, innovation, scholarship, and education. Resources on Community Wellbeing and External Education Opportunities Student Multicultural Centers Native and Indigenous Student Association - The Native and Indigenous Student Association (NISA) is a politically active community with the twinned goal of holding space and creating a community for Native and Indigenous students while simultaneously decolonizing UMass Boston, and local, state, and federal institutions. We uplift and advocate the sovereignty and self-determination of the stewards of the Massachusett, Wampanoag, Nipmuc, and Narraganset territory we are on. This space is held for Native and Indigenous students and for de-indigenized folks to explore and connect with their indigeneity. This space rejects settler colonial notions of existing as a Native or Indigenous person and is a space for celebration, joy, resistance, education, and liberation. Accomplices are welcome to join in service.│ For more information, click here. Women's Center - The Women's Center is a student-run non-profit that works to create safe spaces for women in the UMass Boston community, dialogue and awareness surrounding women's issues, and empowerment and leadership opportunities for student members. Location: Campus Center, 3rd Floor, Room 3100 │Phone: (617) 287-7986 │Email: womens.center@umb.edu Student Immigrant Alliance Club - The Student Immigrant Alliance Club, aims to create a welcoming and safe community that empowers undocumented students and raises awareness on campus. Location: Campus Center, 3rd Floor │Email: studentimmigrantallianceclub@gmail.com Queer Student Center - The Queer Student Center (QSC) facilitates the educational and social development of gender and sexual minority populations at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. Location: Campus Center, 3rd Floor│Email: QSC@umb.edu Casa Latinx - Casa Latinx is a  non-profit student organization at UMass Boston dedicated to providing cultural, social, and academic support to students and community members. Location: Campus Center, 3rd Floor, Office 3004.01 │Phone: (617) 287-7978  Email: casalatina@umb.edu Asian Student Center - The Asian Student Center is a non-profit organization at UMass Boston that works collaboratively with on- and off-campus programs, centers, and various student-run clubs to provide a diverse, culturally reflective, and safe space for all. Location: Campus Center, 3rd Floor │Phone: (617)-287-7984 │Email: Asian.Center@umb.edu Black Students Center - The Black Students Center (BSC) provides a central space for students of African descent and other ethnic groups to develop academically and socially by promoting a positive self-image through facilitating access to their history and culture. Location: Campus Center, 3rd Floor │Phone: (617) 287-7982 │Email: umassbostonbsc@gmail.com Student Veterans Center - The Student Veterans Center is a student-run center established to help support the growing student veteran population at UMass Boston. Location: Campus Center, 3rd Floor │Phone: 617-2877985│Email: veterans.center@umb.edu UMass Boston offers several resources to support student academic and personal success. This portal is part of a series of pages to support specific student populations. University also offers the below identity source websites. Black Men Black Women Latinidad and UMass Boston UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms