International Student & Scholar Services - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Global Programs Home Academics Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs International Student & Scholar Services Arrival Glossary of Terms UMass VIP Employment Current Students Frequently Asked Questions Visa Interview Tips International Exchange Students Global Ambassadors Current Student Resources Staff Giving Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office International Student & Scholar Services The International Student and Scholar Services works with more than 2,400 students and 300 scholars from more than 100 countries. We are happy to welcome you among our vibrant, international community and hope you will call Boston and the University of Massachusetts Boston your home away from home. This unit serves as your resource for all immigration matters. This office is the university’s liaison to the U.S. governmental agencies concerned with matters relating to international students and scholars studying and working in the United States. Our advisers can assist you with anything that concerns your immigration and employment status. Through advising sessions, scheduled workshops, and information seminars, you will learn to easily navigate your way through the immigration system that governs your stay in the U.S. and focus on your academics, making valuable connections in your community and enjoying your stay in Boston. Please take time to familiarize yourself with these webpages, as you will find much valuable information, including downloadable PDF handbooks, office application forms, and many useful web links. To introduce you to the ISSS and to ensure that you entered the U.S. in proper status, we ask that you to report to a mandatory immigration clearance at the start of your semester.  See below for upcoming mandatory immigration clearance sessions. Upcoming Mandatory Immigration Clearance Sessions International students are permitted to enter the U.S. 30 days prior to the start date on the Form I-20. Please plan to arrive at least two weeks early. Most immigration clearance sessions last approximately 90 minutes in length. If a student has entered the U.S before the program start date, they must sign up and attend the mandatory immigration clearance session. Download the International Student Handbook Virtual Walk-In Advising Hours Virtual Walk-in hours are available during the times listed below. Advising hours are subject to change. Please email isss@umb.edu with any questions. Monday No Walk-ins by appointment only Tuesday 10 AM – 12 PM & 1-3 PM Wednesday 10 AM – 12 PM & 1-3 PM Thursday 10 AM – 12 PM & 1-3 PM Friday No Walk-ins by appointment only Office Hours: Weekdays 9AM – 5PM Location: Campus Center 2nd Floor, Room 2100 Phone: 617.287.5586 Email: isss@umb.edu Please allow 24-48 hours for a response to a phone message or email message - emailing/calling the office multiple times will slow down response times. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms