Undergraduate Research - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Student Research Undergraduate Research Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Graduate Research Opportunities Funds Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Research Funds Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs Undergraduate Research Why should I do research? There are many benefits to doing undergrad research projects: Creating new knowledge through making new and unique analyses and discoveries Making connections with faculty, students, and community members Helping to shape or refine your academic and/or career interests Building skills you will use in future jobs and graduate programs Traveling to local, state, national, and international conferences Getting paid for your research To learn more about undergrad research, see the following sites: Council on Undergrad Research Undergraduate journals in your discipline (such as this example for political science ) ScholarWorks (the Healey library site where we post Honors students' theses) What are the different types of research? Research comes in many types, such as the examples below: Lab Research: Timothy Musoke Timothy explored the role of proteins called beta-arrestins in the regulation of cell-to-cell communication and signaling during animal development, using fruit flies as a model. Policy Research: Angelika Katsinis Angelika explored whether legislation in Massachusetts and the U.S. has been able to help those unaware of the dangers of opioid addiction, and those already facing addiction. Creative Research: Lili Koen Lili’s thesis was an exploration of whether self-portraiture photography is inherently empowering for women, or whether it can perpetuate oppressive perceptions of and among women. Qualitative Research: Sarah Bolden Sarah explored the political significance of practices of image manipulation and editing in the media, through frameworks of authenticity, consumerism, spectacle, and apology. Computational Research: Carla Aravena Carla placed student research subjects in virtual classrooms, and gathered data on how students could use the teacher’s movements to find opportunities to cheat on in-class exams. Organizational Research: Dawn DeRossette Dawn researched the connection between administrative culture and quality of health care within the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Historical Research: Bryce Celotto Bryce traced the roots of school segregation in Washington D.C. and analyzed the U.S. Supreme Court Case Bolling v. Sharpe, which ended de jure segregation in DC public schools. Education Research: Corrie Locke-Hardy Corrie’s research focuses on gender stereotypes in early childhood classrooms. By not reinforcing stereotypes, children are given more freedom to choose how to express themselves. See ScholarWorks to read about this esearch. How do I find a research opportunity? When seeking a research opportunity, we encourage you to consider: 1) Speaking with individual professors Many undergrad students start doing research within their classes, such as capstone courses, research methods courses, and internship courses.  If you would like to build upon these experiences, and take on a research opportunity outside of the classroom: Meet with the Undergrad Program Director, or Thesis Seminar instructor, or the chair for your department Look through the faculty listing for your department, and read the summaries of each faculty member's research, to see whose research might interest you the most Ask the professors you've taken classes with what their research focuses on 2) Taking part in formal research programs Research and Internship Opportunities in the Sciences Research Experiences for Undergraduates in Biology UMass Boston CatCH (Caregiver, Child and Community Health) Scholars Program (research internships in caregiver, child and community health) Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program (provides opportunities for undergraduates from underrepresented groups to excel at the undergraduate level in science- and math-related fields, work toward doctoral degrees, and undertake careers as college teachers) The UMass Boston - Dana Farber/Harvard Cancer Center Research Partnership The Initiative for Maximizing Student Development Bridges to the Baccalaureate Program (for advancing the careers of community college students interested in pursuing a biomedical research career) Research and Internship Opportunities in the Liberal Arts The Undergraduate Research Portfolio encourages you to participate in research—and become part of this analytical and creative activity at UMass Boston. The Undergraduate Research Portfolio gives you the opportunity for high quality faculty/student intellectual exchange by helping you to learn about and participate in research in your field. Visit the College of Liberal Arts for more information. How can I apply for funding? There are two ways to obtain funding for Undergraduate Research Funds: Funding for summer experiences Beacon Student Success Fellowship (BSSF) Funding for the academic year Undergraduate Research Funds (URFs) What research awards and fellowships can I apply to? Graduating with Honors Undergraduate students can graduate with honors through their major or the Honors College For honors in your major, see the Undergrad Program Director or the thesis Seminar instructor, in your major department. For the Honors College visit them at www.honors.umb.edu. Fellowships Fellowship awards fund students’ travel and living expenses as they perform research, teaching, or service during their undergraduate and graduate years.  Some awards are targeted towards specific fields, but others fund experiences in any academic discipline. To see available fellowships please visit the fellowships page at https://www.umb.edu/academics/fellowships/what_are_fellowships. Awards Kingston-Mann Undergraduate Student Research Awards for Excellence in Diversity/Inclusion Scholarship The awards competition honors the work of undergraduate students whose research contributes to the scholarship of diversity and inclusion. The awards program is intended to encourage students to discover their potential as researchers. Included are eight colleges and universities from across New England. For information about the award, selections from past award-winning essays, and application forms, please visit www.umb.edu/kmawards. College and Department Specific Awards Many colleges and departments on campus have awards specific to students within those colleges. Please see your department for a list of these awards. As an example, below is the awards list for political science-related awards. Where can I present or publish my research? We encourage you to present your research: In your capstone & research methods course At your department Research Day At your college Research Day At the Massachusetts Undergraduate Research Conference (each April, in Amherst MA) At the annual conference for the National Council on Undergraduate Research (NCUR) At local, regional, and national conferences with your research discipline We encourage you to publish your research: On the UMass Boston ScholarWorks website In professional journals specific to your research discipline In undergraduate journals specific to your research discipline, such as this example for political science Our UMass Boston non-fiction magazine Writ Large contains personal essays that often spark ideas for future research projects UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms