Partnership Development - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Community Community Partnerships Resources Partnership Development Menu menu Menu Community Relations Community Partnerships Faculty Spotlights Resources Activity Descriptions Additional Reading Partnership Development Professional Development Special Initiatives Partnership Development Partnership activities can take many forms and intensities.  They can range from one-time special events to ongoing, fully integrated initiatives.  Activities can address primary or secondary needs directly or indirectly and can be specific or holistic in nature.  Some activities are tied to dedicate funding sources with pre-defined objectives while others are unfunded and organically developed.  The most effective partnerships build on existing resources and are closely tied to stakeholder interests and responsibilities.  However, partnerships can also serve as an impetus for securing additional funding as well as creating new programs and infrastructure within the stakeholder institutions. Best Partnership Practices Effective and sustainable campus-community partnerships have the following characteristics: Based on and organized around a clear understanding of the shared goal, objectives, strategies, timeline, roles, and responsibilities. Equally benefits all partnering stakeholders. Relationships grounded in trust, mutual respect, clear expectations, and shared decision making. A realistic understanding of each stakeholder’s individual/organizational resources, needs, wants, mission, goals, and limitations. Focused on partner strengths and assets while understanding resource limitations and internal/external threats to the partnership. Integrated assessment and communication loops designed to advance the overall effort. Growth driven by assessment results and continued communication. Seamlessly incorporated into existing interests, responsibilities, and resources. Toolkits For Faculty Toolkit For Community Partner Toolkit Centering Justice and Care in Community-Engaged Work at UMass Boston Now, for the first time, the university’s partnerships and engagement information is available in one central location—the UMass Boston Engage web portal. This easy-to-use web platform allows users to search for a current UMass Boston engagement activity by subject or partner name, enables the possibility of combining resources for similar projects, and provides organizations an easy way to express their interest in partnering with Boston’s only public research university. UMass Boston Faculty and Staff Log in using your UMass Boston email credentials and share your work with the world. Be counted along with hundreds of others on campus who are reaching communities through their research, teaching, and service. Browse UMass Boston Engage by subject area or search to find a particu­lar engagement activity or partner. Identify other UMass Boston projects similar to yours and build on existing partnerships. Find faculty with relevant expertise and interests. Locate current connections with partner organizations, and much more. Partners Potential partners: Express your interest in partnering with UMass Boston . Get started by simply providing your contact information and answering a series of guided questions. Search UMass Boston Engage to learn about university resources and available opportunities. Current partners: Identify efforts Please visit the Additional Reading page located under Resources to the left of this page for a list of helpful resources that contribute to our efforts at UMass Boston and the greater field of university-community partnerships. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms