School Psychology MEd / EdS - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give School Psychology MEd / EdS Home Academics Majors & Programs School Psychology MEd / EdS Request Info Loading... Prepare to be a conscientious provider of psychological and educational services to children, adolescents, and families in school settings. UMass Boston's School Psychology Program is designed to prepare professionals whose primary interests involve children, families, and the educational process. Training goals are founded on a respect for the dignity and worth of all people, with a commitment to appreciating and responding to human diversity. Coursework integrates theory and research in child and adolescent development. It emphasizes evidence-based intervention approaches for psychological services in schools. An important mission of the School Psychology Program is the development of attitudes essential for professional problem-solving and life-long learning. The School Psychology Program is committed to a philosophy of social justice and inclusion compatible with the mission of the College of Education and Human Development at UMass Boston. Please note: Those who hold a master’s degree in a closely related area (e.g., special education, counseling) should apply to the program at the EdS level. All others should apply to the program at the MEd level. The primary goal of the School Psychology Program at UMass Boston is to prepare practitioners to provide psychological and educational services to children, adolescents, and their families as part of a school-based multi-disciplinary team. The role of a school psychologist is complex. School psychologists are called upon to perform a variety of tasks and assume many responsibilities, including that of assessment specialist, consultant, counselor, administrator, researcher, educational programmer, trainer of school staff, preventive mental health agent, and liaison to community organizations. The UMass Boston School Psychology Program is competency based, using a problem-solving, consultative model to train students to be effective in these multiple roles. The program emphasizes a holistic approach, requiring the consideration of multiple factors starting with biological and neuropsychological bases, individual strengths and needs, as well as consideration of family, teacher, classroom, school, neighborhood, community, and culture. Students learn to support the development of children and adolescents by assessment and intervention at the individual and systems (family, school, and community) levels. This program fosters collaboration with other professionals and the integration of multiple perspectives. Why Apply to UMass Boston’s School Psychology MEd/EdS Program? Because times have changed. While academic matters are still an important focus of schools, school psychologists have emerged as advocates for children, providing compassionate guidance to ensure that student social-emotional issues are being addressed in schools. School psychologists play various roles in school systems, including that of crisis interventionist, counselor, assessment expert, community outreach coordinator, and mental health expert. Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Admission Requirements NOTE: If you have only a bachelor’s degree, please indicate on the application form that you’re applying to the MEd program. You will complete the MEd and EdS requirements (total of 66 credits) to get licensed. If you have a completed relevant master’s degree (special education, etc.) please note that you are applying to the EdS program only (minimum 30 credits). In addition to the criteria below, applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements . A statement of purpose describing your understanding of school psychology practice and detailing personal career objectives. Please answer this question and not the one from the Office of Graduate Admissions. Transcripts of all previous college work, undergraduate and graduate. Undergraduate and graduate cumulative grade point averages (GPA) should be at least 3.0 overall, and 3.0 in psychology courses as well. Prerequisite course work includes a minimum of five (5) psychology courses including introductory psychology, human development, and statistics. Two letters of recommendation. At least one letter should address academic promise and ability to succeed in advanced graduate training, and at least one letter should address the ability to work with children and adolescents and develop into a thoughtful and responsive practitioner. Scores for the Communication & Literacy Skills (reading and writing) portions of the Massachusetts Educator Licensure Test (MTEL). Students may be admitted provisionally without having taken the MTEL, but will be required to take the tests during the first semester of attendance and pass them prior to the internship. Deadlines & Cost Deadline: December 1 for a fall start Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum: MEd Required Courses (30 Credits) COUNSL 601 - Research and Evaluation in Psychology 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 614 - Counseling Theory and Practice I 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 632 - Collaborative Consultation in Schools 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 653 - Sociocultural Considerations in Counseling 3 Credit(s) SPY G 601 - Issues and Ethics in School Psychology 3 Credit(s) SPY G 602 - Standardized Assessment and Report Writing 3 Credit(s) SPY G 603 - Foundations of Educational Assessment and Data-Based Decision Making 3 Credit(s) SPY G 604 - Social, Emotional, and Behavioral Assessment and Intervention 3 Credit(s) SPY G 607 - School-Based Interventions and Data-Based Decision Making 3 Credit(s) SPY G 653 - Culturally Responsive Practice & Social Justice in School Psychology 3 Credit(s) Additional Courses (6 Credits) Complete two from below. COUNSL 608 - Psychopathology and Diagnosis 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 617 - Child and Adolescent Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 650 - Group Counseling for Children and Adolescents 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 660 - College Readiness Counseling 3 Credit(s) SPY G 608 - Systems Consultation, Prevention, and Organizational Change 3 Credit(s) SPY G 612 - Learning and the Curriculum 3 Credit(s) SPY G 635 - Behavior Therapy in Schools 3 Credit(s) Curriculum: EdS Core Courses (48 Credits) COUNSL 601 - Research and Evaluation in Psychology 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 608 - Psychopathology and Diagnosis 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 614 - Counseling Theory and Practice I 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 617 - Child and Adolescent Counseling 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 632 - Collaborative Consultation in Schools 3 Credit(s) COUNSL 650 - Group Counseling for Children and Adolescents 3 Credit(s) CSP 660 - Physiological Bases of Behavior 3 Credit(s) SPY G 601 - Issues and Ethics in School Psychology 3 Credit(s) SPY G 602 - Standardized Assessment and Report Writing 3 Credit(s) SPY G 603 - Foundations of Educational Assessment and Data-Based Decision Making 3 Credit(s) SPY G 604 - Social, Emotional, and Behavioral Assessment and Intervention 3 Credit(s) SPY G 607 - School-Based Interventions and Data-Based Decision Making 3 Credit(s) SPY G 608 - Systems Consultation, Prevention, and Organizational Change 3 Credit(s) SPY G 612 - Learning and the Curriculum 3 Credit(s) SPY G 635 - Behavior Therapy in Schools 3 Credit(s) SPY G 653 - Culturally Responsive Practice & Social Justice in School Psychology 3 Credit(s) Fieldwork Courses (18 Credits) SPY G 685 - Practicum I: School-Based Assessment & Intervention 3 Credit(s) SPY G 686 - Practicum II: School-Based Assessment & Intervention 3 Credit(s) SPY G 689 - Internship in School Psychology 6 >Credit(s) - complete two semesters Elective Course SPY G 687 - Practicum in School Psychology III may be taken as an elective, but is not required. Graduation Criteria MEd Complete 36 credits from twelve courses including ten required courses and two additional courses. Prerequisites to full acceptance: Passing scores on the Massachusetts Test for Educator Literacy (MTEL) and a minimum of five courses in psychology including one course in human development (if needed, COUNSL 620 - Life Span Human Development is recommended) and one course in statistics (if needed, PSYCH 270 Psychology Statistics is recommended). Capstone: Successful completion of a written comprehensive exam after completing 36 credits of coursework. Statute of limitations: Seven years. EdS Complete 66 credits from 20 courses including 16 core courses and four fieldwork courses. Prerequisites to full acceptance: Passing scores on the Massachusetts Test for Educator Literacy (MTEL) and a minimum of five courses in psychology including one course in human development (if needed, COUNSL 620 - Life Span Human Development is recommended) and one course in statistics (if needed, PSYCH 270 Psychology Statistics is recommended). Capstone: Successful completion of Praxis II exams and an internship portfolio. Practicum: Complete 1400 hours of practicum experience. Students who have completed the School Psychology (MEd) will apply their coursework toward the EdS requirements. Applicants admitted to the EdS program, who already have a master’s or higher degree in a related field, are eligible for waivers of requirements for comparable courses already completed at the graduate level. Their individual plan of study will be tentatively determined at the interview and formally determined after matriculation, following a review of course descriptions and syllabi. Students who successfully complete the program are eligible to apply for licensure as a school psychologist in Massachusetts. Statute of limitations: Three years. Contact Graduate Program Director Tracy Paskiewicz tracy.paskiewicz [at] umb.edu (617) 287-7595 Counseling & School Psychology Graduate Programs csp.admissions [at] umb.edu Counseling & School Psychology Learn more about UMass Boston's Counseling & School Psychology department, our research, and our faculty. Explore the Department of Counseling & School Psychology College of Education & Human Development Learn more about the faculty, research, and programs that make up our College of Education & Human Development. Explore College of Education & Human Development Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms