Bookstore Advance - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Bursar Bookstore Advance Menu menu Menu Plan to Pay Financial Responsibility Agreement Tuition & Fees Payment Information Student Refunds Health Insurance Bookstore Advance Student Tax Information Forms Assistance Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Book Advance The Financial Aid Book Advance for Fall 2024 is now available from 8/05/24 to 9/11/24. Eligible students will receive email notification with details and a ‘FA Book Advance – BVH’ flag will be placed in their WISER accounts (IT IS NOT A HOLD). Your estimated financial aid package must exceed your financial obligation to the university for the current semester in order to qualify for the Financial Aid Book Advance program. The book advance is an available line of credit at the UMass book store to be used for textbooks and course related supplies (cannot be used for Gift Cards). If you qualify for a book advance, you will receive an email in your university student email account and a "FA Book Advance" flag will be placed on your WISER account.   *You can find the amount of your available credit by clicking on the details on the "FA Book Advance" flag in WISER. Financial Aid Book Advance may vary from the range between $100 and $750.00. Using a book advance does not change the total of your financial aid awards. It is not an additional award.  A book advance is simply a way to access your financial aid for bookstore purchases. The exact amount you charge at the bookstore will be added to your WISER account. After the add/drop period, your financial aid will be applied towards these charges and the balance will be deducted from your financial aid refund that you qualify for. Students are awarded financial aid based on anticipated enrollment in full-time coursework. The following may reduce or eliminate your anticipated excess financial aid: Less than full-time enrollment Enrollment in online courses, offered a reduced rate Changes to your financial aid eligibility, including declined student loans Additional charges on your student account Withdrawal from the university *For the students who are living in the RESIDENCE HALL and plan to use your financial aid refund/excess funds to assist with your housing cost, using the book advance credit will reduce and/or eliminate your excess funds.  We suggest students who are living on campus should check in with The One Stop to discuss the impact of using the book advance. If you have any questions, please contact the Bursar’s Office to verify your eligibility. Need help? Frequently asked questions (FAQ) UMB Book Advance Job Aid See Also UMass Boston Bookstore Bursar's Office Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Student Inquiries Phone: 617.287.5350 Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Email: Bursar@umb.edu Walks-in: Please visit The One Stop for all inquiries related to Billing Teller Hours Hours: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Internal Business for Departments Email: BursarTreasury@umb.edu Hours: Monday – Thursday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms