Center Academics - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Development & Education Center Academics Menu menu Menu People Research & Evaluation Camp Shriver & Community Programs Center Academics Center Academics In 1998, the Center for Social Development and Education began to expand its focus on research to include models of practice and professional development. These models came in response to changes in special education and growing demands on schools. CSDE has developed a graduate certificate program that links applied research findings to educators in our changing school environments, and a master’s degree option that includes the graduate certificate credits. Applied Behavior Analysis for Special Populations The  graduate certificate prepares educators for the Behavior Analyst Certification Board national professional examination.  This 7-course sequence is offered intensively between September and July each year. See Program Details Interactive Learning These professional development trainings are available through a number of flexible models such as on-site presentations to a cohort from a school, district, or geographic area. Online courses are also offered for those whose busy lives can more easily incorporate a technology-based presentation. The ABA program is offered live and simultaneously to additional sites through Interactive Television (ITV). Impact Approximately 535 educators, including teachers, behavior specialists, administrators, and support personnel, have earned the full Applied Behavior Analysis graduate certificate. In addition, more than 200 participants have continued into the master’s degree option. Looking Ahead CSDE is poised to expand its role in preparing educators to work with children and adults with disabilities in schools and agencies by responding to emerging validated practices and professional standards. CSDE will continue to reach out to educators and other staff in school systems throughout the Commonwealth by employing technology in ways that bring education to the educators serving children and adults in specialized settings across their lifespan. Drawing from corporate models of distance learning, CSDE continues to experiment with new approaches for preparing educators to meet the ever-changing challenges of the diverse learner in the urban classroom. Furthermore, CSDE will continue to find new ways by which to link research to practice, and most importantly, how research and practice activities can serve as a model for graduate students who, in their roles as educators, will serve as the next generation of change agents. For more information, contact: Jill Tilton Program Administrator 617-287-7235 Jill.Tilton@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms