Academic Standing - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Policies Academic Standing Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Academic Standing Reenrollment Attendance Repeat Change Name Second Degree Previous Degree Course Reuse Sequencing Policies Credit Load University Withdrawal FERPA Grade Submission Graduate Student Statute Limitations Incomplete NA Grade Pass Fail Withdrawal Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Academic Standing Regulations Governing Undergraduates 1 Download the Academic Standing Chart Good Standing Description: Cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or higher 2 Impact N/A Eligibility to register for fall and spring semesters 4 Yes Eligibility to register for summer/winter sessions 6 Yes Eligibility for Readmission Automatic with Application for Readmission form 4 Alert Description: At the end of a student’s first semester at UMass Boston if the GPA is below 2.0. Impact N/A Eligibility to register for fall and spring semesters 4 Yes Eligibility to register for summer/winter sessions 6 Yes Eligibility for Readmission With approval 5 Warning Description: Any semester in which a student’s term GPA is below 2.0 and the cumulative GPA is 2.0 or higher. Impact N/A Eligibility to register for fall and spring semesters 4 Yes Eligibility to register for summer/winter sessions 6 Yes Eligibility for Readmission Automatic with Application for Readmission form4 Probation Description: At the end of second or subsequent semester, in which a student’s cumulative GPA is below 2.0 3 Impact Cannot hold any official student club or center leadership position or participate on an athletic team. Eligibility to register for fall and spring semesters 4 Yes Eligibility to register for summer/winter sessions 6 Yes Eligibility for Readmission With approval 5 Extended Probation Description: After one or more semesters in which a student is on probation.  Cumulative GPA remains below 2.0, but the term GPA is at or over 2.3 (based on, at least six credits with grades other than ‘INC’ ‘P’ or ‘F’).  Students may be eligible for multiple semesters on extended probation. 3 Impact Cannot hold any official student club or center leadership position or participate on an athletic team. Eligibility to register for fall and spring semesters 4 Yes Eligibility to register for summer/winter sessions 6 Yes Eligibility for Readmission With approval 5 Suspension Description: If after a semester on probation, a student’s GPA is below 2.0., and doesn’t meet criteria for extended probation. Impact Ineligible to enroll for a minimum of one semester.  Suspension notation made on student’s transcript. Eligibility to register for fall and spring semesters 4 No Eligibility to register for summer/winter sessions 6 Yes for summer, No for Winter Eligibility for Readmission With approval and after one semester of  inactive status5 Dismissal Description: Dismissal will occur if student does not meet retention standard set by the readmitting authority. Impact Dismissal notation made on student’s transcript. Ineligible to enroll for a minimum of one year. Eligibility to register for fall and spring semesters 4 No Eligibility to register for summer/winter sessions 6 No Eligibility for Readmission With approval and after one year of inactive status. 5 Notes: 1. These regulations apply to students in the College of Education and Human Development, College of Liberal Arts, College of Management, and the College of Science and Mathematics, and the College of Advancing and Professional Studies. Students in the College of Nursing and Health Sciences follow an additional set of academic standards, which can be found on their website . Repeating a course does not retro-actively change academic standing. As such, repeated courses, even when they improve a student’s cumulative and semester GPA, will not change the original academic standing designation that was applied to the semester in which the first course was taken. 2. Cumulative GPA is calculated based on all UMass Boston grades. Term GPA is calculated based on grades in a given semester. Transfer courses are not factored into the GPA. 3. When a student’s cumulative GPA is below 2.0, the Office of Undergraduate Studies notifies students via email and/or a letter encouraging academic advising.  However, it is the student’s responsibility to know his academic standing by checking his grades and transcript on the WISER system. 4. Inactive students wishing to readmit to the university must complete an Undergraduate Readmission Application. 5. If a student with a cumulative GPA below 2.0 voluntarily withdraws, his eligibility to enroll in future courses is not automatic and is subject to approval by the readmitting authority of the student’s college, who may set conditions on the student’s schedule. Students must apply for readmission by their college deadline. See Undergraduate Re-Enrollment Application for more information. 6. Student must be active to register. Inactive students must apply for re-enrollment. Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms