Flowcytometrycore - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Flow Cytometric Analysis and Cell Sorting Home Flowcytometrycore Menu menu Menu About Us Project Planning Services Pricing Flow Cytometric Analysis and Cell Sorting The Flow Cytometry Core Facility enables UMass Boston investigators and academic and industry collaborators to carry out basic and translational cellular and molecular biology research.  We leverage cutting-edge technologies for research and clinical applications.  We help investigators and clinicians analyze tissue samples, identify and quantify different populations of cells based on the presence of cell-specific fluorescent signatures, and collect cellular populations of interest for further analysis. The Flow Cytometry Core at UMass Boston is equipped with a BD FACSAria Fusion . The BD FACSAria-Fusion has green/yellow, blue, red, and near UV lasers, and temperature controlled 2 and 4 way sorting, and sorting in to a 96-well plate. The system is located in a custom-built biosafety hood and is capable of aseptic cell sorting. The facility has removable 70, 85, 100, and 130-μm nozzles capable of analyzing and sorting small (<5 micron) up to large (> 50 micron) particles. Contact Jill A. Macoska, PhD Flow Cytometry Core Director facs@umb.edu Susan Patalano Salsman Flow Cytometry Core Manager Susan.Patalano@umb.edu 617.287.6578 Flow Cytometry Core Facility Integrated Sciences Complex, Room 5500 Boston, MA 02125-3393 Hours of Operation Monday-Friday, 8a.m.-4p.m. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms