Tutoring Programs - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Student Equity, Access & Success Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Center for Academic Excellence Tutoring Programs Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Tutoring Programs Undergraduate Courses Academic Coaching Peer Mentoring Program Citing Correctly A Self Check Tool For Students Undergraduate English as a Second Language Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Tutoring Programs Subject Tutoring Program The Center for Academic Excellence Tutoring program brings academic support to all UMass Boston students in a variety of convenient and accessible formats, engaging students academically where they are and how they operate as learners. Tutoring sessions are free of charge with appointments available in 1-1, small group, drop in, and semester-based formats. Services cover many 100, 200, and select 300 level courses. If you do not see a course for which you would like a tutor, please email  tutoringprogram@umb.edu and let us know. There is also a box in the scheduling system to make such a request. All tutors have successfully demonstrated their ability to navigate the challenges of college level coursework and create solid connections with their peers at UMass Boston. All tutors must receive a UMB faculty recommendation and complete a certified training program. For information on current course offerings, or to see the current tutoring program semester schedule and make an appointment, check here . Make A Tutoring Appointment For questions about Tutoring, please email tutoringprogram@umb.edu Tutoring Mission Using strength based and culturally sustaining approaches, our undergraduate peer tutors fuse content (what to learn) and process based (how to learn) strategies to create engaging and accessible learning experiences for UMass Boston students. Our peer tutors are current students who reflect the rich diversity and life experience of the UMass Boston community. Based on careful assessment of individual student needs and course requirements, Center for Academic Excellence Tutors facilitate learning sessions using the principles of Universal Design and Self-Regulated Learning with the goals of assisting students in mastering course content, enhancing academic skill development, developing each student’s personalized network of campus resources, and timely progress toward education goals. Tutoring Services for Multilingual Students The ESL program at UMass Boston seamlessly connects classroom and tutoring spaces through a unique teacher-tutor fellow intervention. Ongoing collaboration between ESL tutors and faculty empowers our linguistically diverse students to achieve their academic goals. Trained tutors attend faculty classes to stay updated on course content, enabling them to provide responsive support for writing and language skill development outside of class. We aim to increase the visibility of our tutoring services and create a friendly, cooperative, and equitable environment for multilingual students to thrive with the help of qualified tutors. ALEKS Math Workshops The ALEKS PPL program tailors self-directed learning modules to each student based on their performance on the ALEKS Math assessment. At the workshops, the tutor helps students individually as needed and is there as a guide/resource when questions or technical challenges arise. If you are trying to improve your ALEKS Math Placement score to get into a course, or if you want to improve your math skills in a particular area, the ALEKS Math Workshop is here to help! UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms