Bunker Hill Community College, UMass Boston Adopt Partnership Agreement  - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Bunker Hill Community College, UMass Boston Adopt Partnership Agreement Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Bunker Hill Community College, UMass Boston Adopt Admissions, Transfer Partnership Agreement 09/25/2024 |
    Office of Communications Pact Establishes ‘Future Beacon Joint Admissions Program’ BHCC President Pam Eddinger and UMB Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco at the signing event UMass Boston and Bunker Hill Community College have signed a partnership agreement to streamline the pathway from community college to four-year college through the new Future Beacon Joint Admissions Program. The partnership is intended to build a new pathway to student success and improve outcomes for community college transfer students in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. “The UMass Boston community has long been enriched by the diverse life experiences and perspectives of transfer students from BHCC,” said Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco. “The Future Beacon Joint Admissions Program opens a welcoming, supportive pathway for them to continue their educational journeys, find what they love, and shape meaningful careers. UMass Boston is proud to contribute to this significant public higher education partnership.” UMass Boston welcomes more than 1,500 new transfer students annually, more than any other public university in Massachusetts. BHCC is the largest institution sending students to UMass Boston, with more than 300 students transferring annually. The Future Beacon Joint Admissions Program provides a comprehensive support network and a seamless experience for transfer students looking to move from BHCC to UMass Boston to continue their education. “The Bunker Hill Community College-UMass Boston connection is a special one: the university has always been one of the top transfer destinations for BHCC students, and we both understand what it means to serve our urban and gateway communities of first-generation college students, of immigrant families, and post-traditional learners,” said BHCC President Pam Eddinger. “This joint admissions agreement not only brings our institutions closer together and more focused than ever on that critical work, it also means our students will have a seamless opportunity to go from community college to bachelor’s degree and beyond.” The Future Beacons Joint Admissions Agreement was signed as part of an event co-hosted by The Boston Foundation, EdVestors, and the Boston Opportunity Agenda focused on emerging best practices and opportunities for Boston students to participate in high-quality, relevant, and equitable college and career pathways that increase access to higher education and real-world work experiences leading to meaningful, family-sustaining wage jobs. To this aim, UMass Boston and BHCC have been critical partners in two citywide collaborative efforts: New Skills Boston and Success Boston. Today’s event highlighted the collective work of UMass Boston and BHCC, and other partners in these efforts: Boston Public Schools, Boston Private Industry Council, The Boston Foundation, The Boston Opportunity Agenda, City of Boston, EdVestors, and Massachusetts Executive Office of Education. Through the Future Beacon Joint Admissions Program, prospective students may simultaneously apply to both BHCC and UMass Boston and enjoy both schools' support and services. Prospective and enrolled BHCC students will have opportunities through their enrollment and advising experience at BHCC to learn about and participate in the Future Beacon Joint Admissions Program. BHCC students can access campus resources, including a UMass Boston Student ID, Wi-Fi, various athletic and student life events, Beacon Fitness Center, and Healey Library resources. Upon graduation, they are guaranteed admission at UMass Boston with a 2.0 GPA or better (excluding competitive programs). “UMass Boston is thrilled to enhance our partnership with BHCC through this agreement,” said Joseph Berger, provost and vice chancellor for academic affairs. “The Future Beacon pathway breaks down traditional barriers for equitable access and provides tangible opportunities for belonging and student success across our two great institutions of higher education.” The Future Beacon Joint Admission Program provides dedicated advising and scholarship opportunities for BHCC students. The sharing agreement enables both institutions better to support students with course selection and degree attainment. As part of the program, UMass Boston transfer admissions team members will be embedded at BHCC to provide admissions and advising support to facilitate a smooth transition. All students will have access to BHCC Pathway Coaching staff and departmental advisors to help students track their progress toward A.A. or A.S. degree completion. Students enrolled in the Future Beacon Joint Admissions program will also be invited to special group advising and class registration sessions each semester. “The Future Beacons program is such an important step forward in the Bunker Hill-UMass Boston partnership,” said BHCC Provost James Canniff. “It will give students a direct, barrier-free pathway to a bachelor’s degree and the inclusive support they need to be successful—a program that will appeal not only to BHCC’s current and post-traditional students but to high school students seeking a supportive and affordable pathway to higher education. The Future Beacons program is a truly innovative model for community colleges and our 4-year partners to work together.” BHCC students in the Future Beacons program will also have access to significant financial support. UMass Boston’s $250 enrollment deposit fee will be waived upon the completion of a student’s enrollment confirmation form. Students who enroll at UMass Boston within one year of graduating with an associate degree will receive the value of MassTransfer Tuition credit. Students will also be eligible for one of four Transfer Merit Scholarships dedicated to the Future Beacon Joint Admissions program, up to $2,000 annually. Students graduating in the top 10 percent of their class who meet the overall eligibility requirements will be awarded the Community College Advantage Scholarship, in the form of $5,000 annually for up to two years, and each year, UMass Boston will award one Foster Furcolo Scholarship, which will cover mandatory tuition and fees. Additionally, students who apply to UMass Boston and still need to meet admission requirements can join the Future Beacon Joint Admissions program at BHCC. Interested students will meet with UMass Boston’s Transfer Enrollment Counselor to learn more about the requirements for the program and get assistance with next steps. Students who decide to participate in the program will complete a Joint Admissions Participation form, provided by UMass Boston. This joint admissions program builds on the strong, reciprocal partnership between UMass Boston and BHCC, particularly around their designation as Boston’s only Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions (AANAPISI). With nearly $10 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Education since 2010, this project focuses on the establishment of accelerated and aligned curricular pathways and academic support services; integrated and affinity-based academic advising; career development and work-based learning; and collaborative, asset-based student success outcomes assessment, data-sharing, and dissemination of findings. In addition, BHCC, UMass Boston, and EdVestors as the backbone partner—along with other partners like Boston Public Schools, Boston Private Industry Council, The Boston Foundation, City of Boston, and Massachusetts Executive Office of Education—worked collaboratively to launch New Skills Boston aimed at providing high-quality career learning opportunities for all young people. New Skills Boston, launched in 2020, is one of six sites selected nationally for JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s New Skills Ready Network, receiving a $7 million investment over five years, with the goal of closing the education-employment gap. Through Success Boston–Boston’s citywide college completion initiative—the Boston Foundation has also partnered with UMass Boston and BHCC for years to develop more coordinated student advising supports. About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city's history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve more than 15,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . About Bunker Hill Community College With more than 50 years of academic excellence, Bunker Hill Community College (BHCC) is Massachusetts' largest community college, annually welcoming a diverse community of around 16,000 students. With campuses in Charlestown and Chelsea, BHCC extends its reach across several locations in Greater Boston. The College offers associate degrees and certificates, early college and dual enrollment, community education, corporate training, and industry-specific training programs. BHCC is celebrated for its diversity, boasting a student body where 65% identify as people of color and more than half are women. The College also embraces a global perspective, with over 600 international students representing 90 countries and conversing in more than 65 languages. Our commitment to diversity is further reflected in BHCC's designation as a Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) and an Asian American Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institution (AANAPISI). About Success Boston Success Boston is Boston’s citywide college completion initiative, dedicated to increasing the number of Boston Public Schools graduates who earn postsecondary credentials. Established in 2009 and now managed by the Boston Opportunity Agenda, Success Boston is a cross-sector collaboration between the Boston Foundation, Boston Public Schools, the City of Boston, nonprofit organizations, and higher education institutions. Guided by a citywide goal of 70% postsecondary completion and joined by 17 local higher education institutions, the partnership seeks to build more equitable systems across the education-to-career pipeline, by working institutionally and as a coalition to improve policy, build better programs, and redesign systems to prioritize the success of Black and Latinx students. About New Skills Boston Launched in 2020 with a 5 year, $7M investment from JPMorgan Chase & Co., New Skills Boston is cross-sector partnership making high-quality career pathways accessible to more students in Boston. New Skills Boston improves systems and eliminates structural barriers in support of engaging, relevant, and equitable career pathways that prepare young people for their futures. As one of 6 cities in JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s national New Skills Ready initiative, EdVestors serves as the lead partner alongside Boston Public Schools, Bunker Hill Community College, UMass Boston, the Boston Private Industry Council, City of Boston, and Massachusetts Executive Office of Education. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms