Faculty Writing Groups - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Writing Center Services For Faculty Faculty Writing Groups Menu menu Menu About Us Services For Faculty Faculty Writing Groups Services For Students Faculty Writing Groups & Retreats Accountability Writing Groups for Faculty The Writing Center organizes writing groups for faculty. These are accountability writing groups, designed to provide UMass Boston staff and faculty members—tenure track, non-tenure track, and post-docs—with time and space to work on their writing in the company of others. We define writing broadly, so writing groups can be used to work on research, data analysis, revision, brainstorming, reading, and any other part of the writing process. We start each writing group with a short goal-setting conversation and wrap up by celebrating our accomplishments. Since these are accountability writing groups, participants don’t exchange writing, instead, we work independently but provide extra accountability and community. Register for the Writing Group for Faculty of Color Register for the Writing Group for Faculty Fall 2024 Writing Group for Faculty of Color: The writing group for faculty of color will meet on Mondays from 10:00am-1:00pm. We will meet in-person in McCormack Hall, 3rd floor, room 0721 and on Zoom while classes are in session. Our first writing group is Monday Sep. 16 and our last session will be Monday, Dec. 9. If you’re a UMB faculty member, post-doc, or staff member and identify as Black, Brown, Indigenous, or a person of color, please register to attend . You only need to register once, and you’ll receive an email with more information and the zoom link ahead of the writing group. Participants don’t have to attend every writing group nor stay the whole time. These writing groups are meant to work around your schedule, so come and go as you’re able. This writing group is co-hosted by The Writing Center, the Office for Faculty Development, and the Dean of Faculty. Fall 2024 Faculty Writing Group (virtual): The faculty writing group will meet on Wednesdays from 10:00am-1:00pm on zoom while classes are in session. Our first writing group is Wednesday Sep. 18 and our last session is Wednesday Dec. 11. If you’re a UMB faculty member, post-doc, or staff member register to attend . You only need to register once, and you’ll receive an email with more information and the zoom link ahead of the writing group. Participants don’t have to attend every writing group nor stay the whole time. These writing groups are meant to work around your schedule, so come and go as you’re able. Writing Center Main location: Campus Center, First Floor, Room 1300 Boston , MA 02125 USA 617.287.6753 writingcenter@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms