UMass Boston Celebrates 2024 Grad Commencement  - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News UMass Boston Celebrates 2024 Grad Commencement Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Commencement Never Give Up: UMass Boston Graduate Students Asked to Use their Education for the Public Good 05/29/2024 |
    Danielle Bilotta A beautiful clear blue sky acted as a backdrop over Dorchester Bay for graduates and their families to celebrate the UMass Boston 56th commencement ceremony for graduate students on Wednesday; 1,242 students completed their graduate programs in the Class of 2024, including students who graduated with a Doctor of Philosophy, Doctor of Education, or a Doctor of Nursing Practice. Image By: Javier Rivas, Haley Abram, Nick Brady, and Jack Macmullin Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco encouraged students to take in every detail of the day, reflect on their warm memories at UMass Boston, and consider how their new knowledge can help make a positive impact on the future. He emphasized that an investment in education means an investment in a broad devotion to public good. “Among the worthiest outcomes of a graduate school education is committing to that one thing that you love so much that the sun can’t come up fast enough,” the chancellor said. “And in doing so, becoming an unstoppable force for good. “Know that every one of you has something unique to give – a skill, a socioemotional sensibility, or expertise that may crack the code on the day’s issues and serve us all.” Watch UMass Boston's 2024 graduate commencement. UMass Trustee and UMass Boston alum Steven A. Tolman referred to himself as a proud Beacon and shared how circumstances in his life almost ended his academic journey had it not been for an encouraging professor who made sure Tolman had the support he needed to complete his education. Tolman said that moment had an enormous impact on his life and is an example of how the UMass Boston community supports each other. “I’ve come to realize that’s what Beacons do for each other,” he said. “We learn from each other, we face challenges head on, and above all, we don’t give up. We are the guiding light.” Tolman told students to hold on to the Beacon spirit and tenacity they’ve earned at UMass Boston, and to stay curious, focused, and fearless while exploring new opportunities. “We are counting on you, class of 2024,” Tolman said. “You are the future of this great city, this great state, and our great nation.” This year’s graduate student speaker Ciara Ham used her academic journey as a testament to never give up hope. A South Boston native, Ciara Ham graduated from the College of Management with a master's in business administration. Growing up in marginalized communities, Ham spoke to the audience about how the resources available at UMass Boston not only helped her achieve academic success but gave her the opportunity to give back to her community through volunteering and mentorship. “There’s a famous saying ‘When life gives you lemons, make lemonade,’” she said. “Life didn’t give me lemons but instead a lemon seed and I had to figure out how to make it grow into lemons before even attempting to make lemonade.” She encouraged her fellow graduates to use their education to find ways to give back to their communities and help those that follow in their footsteps. “Today marks not just the celebration of years of hard work and dedication, but also the beginning of a journey and new dreams where each of us has the power to make a difference,” she said. “True success is not measured solely by personal achievements, but by the positive impact we have on the world around us.” Wednesday’s commencement ceremony also recognized three faculty members who received distinguished faculty awards. Professor Suha Ballout received the Chancellor’s Award for Distinguished Teaching, Professor Laura Hayman received the Chancellor’s Award for Distinguished Service, and Professor Peter Kiang received the Chancellor’s Award for Distinguished Scholarship. At the end of the ceremony, rows of graduates stood tall to confer their degrees, move the tassels on their caps from right to left, and revel in the final moments of their commencement ceremony. They were welcomed to the UMass Boston alumni community as their family and friends cheered in celebration and encouraged to work toward greater well-being in education, health, and economic prosperity. “We need the UMass Boston Class of 2024 right now,” Chancellor Suárez-Orozco said. “Be kind and grateful and remember to smell the roses.” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms