Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Social Development & Education Camp Shriver & Community Programs Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner Menu menu Menu People Research & Evaluation Camp Shriver & Community Programs Camp Shriver Impact Report, Mission, Model & Evaluation Summer Stars Saturday Camp Staff and Volunteers Boston Marathon Team TCS New York City Marathon Team International Marathons and Premier Race Events Thrive for Shriver Challenge Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Award Winner Media Packet And Publications Best Practices for Inclusive Camps Center Academics Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Sports Award Winner “Camp Shriver at UMass Boston is privileged to stand with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in highlighting the importance of inclusion of children and youth of all abilities in sports and recreational activities. At Camp Shriver, uniquely serving a population where half of our participants have a disability, all children learn and play as equals. With this award, Camp Shriver will continue to demonstrate the importance of inclusion, both through expanding our camp and disseminating inclusive standards nationally.” – Gary Siperstein, founder and director of the Center for Social Development and Education at the University of Massachusetts Boston Since 2015, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) Sports Award has recognized professional sports teams, athletes, coaches, and community-based organizations that use sports to catalyze and sustain changes to make communities healthier places to live, learn, work, and play. RWJF lifts up organizations that bring a deep understanding of community needs and acknowledge the power of sports to connect us and make us healthier, no matter our race, gender, abilities, or economic background. This award program will be coming to a close this year. “We celebrate and honor all of the organizations that have been winners and finalists over the history of our award program recognizing the power of sports to improve health equity,” said Dr. Richard Besser, president and CEO of RWJF.  “We take pride in the tremendous growth, accomplishments, and contributions to health made through sports.” To learn more about the RWJF Sports Award, and see past winners, visit www.rwjf.org/sportsaward . Camp Shriver is held on the UMass Amherst Mount Ida Campus annually for 4 weeks in July. ABOUT THE ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON FOUNDATION SPORTS AWARD The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Sports Award honors the innovative and collaborative efforts of individuals, organizations and teams that are making their communities healthier through sport. For more information on the award, visit www.rwjf.org/sportsaward . ABOUT THE ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON FOUNDATION The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) is committed to improving health and health equity in the United States. In partnership with others, we are working to develop a Culture of Health rooted in equity that provides every individual with a fair and just opportunity to thrive, no matter who they are, where they live, or how much money they have. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms