Resources for Parents And Families - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Dean Of Students Resources for Parents And Families Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Emergency Aid Fund Services for Faculty & Staff Forms Resources for Parents And Families Referral & Complaint Forms Resources for Students Services for Students Contact Us Student Conduct Process Current Students Resources for Parents and Families Emergencies If this is an Emergency, please contact UMass Boston Police at 617.287.1212 or local police by dialing 911. Popular Resources Contact Us Refer a student to our office Resources4U: Resources for family & friends Resources4U: Resources for students We help students and their families manage crises, life traumas, and other barriers that impede success. Our staff works to address the needs of students who struggle in such areas as psychological health, physical health, victimization, relationship issues, social adjustment, and academics through a variety of interventions, referrals, and follow up services. We strive for a culture of caring on campus. Concerned about your student? There are many resources available to students who may be struggling, including counseling , tutoring , and many more. You can direct your student to review these resources on UMass Boston’s Resources4U website . If you are experiencing an emergency, always call 911. Need assistance helping your student with an issue or navigating a process? If you or your student are not sure what to do or where to turn, you can always contact the Dean of Students Office for guidance. We will either help you directly or connect you with a staff member in the appropriate office. Resources for Students UMass Boston is here to help students succeed. Resources we have gathered for students . Resources for Family & Friends For many students, joining the UMass Boston community will be their first experience living away from home for a prolonged time. Resources for family and friends that can help you and your student better communicate about their life on campus. FERPA Our staff is bound by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). When a student reaches the age of 18, or begins attending a post-secondary institution regardless of age, FERPA rights transfer to the student. Therefore, with the exception of a crisis situation, the Dean of Students Office shares information about student concerns only on a need-to-know basis to the extent permitted by FERPA. There are three ways you may legally receive access to your student's education records: Your student signs a FERPA release form granting you permission You provide evidence that you claimed the student as a financial dependent on your most recent Federal income Tax form Through a lawfully-issued subpoena or court order Dean of Students Office Campus Center, Floor 2 617.287.5800 dean.students@umb.edu If this is an emergency call the UMass Boston Police at 617.287.7777 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms