Meet Our Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Student Success Center Meet With Your Advisor Meet Our Staff Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Research Student Success Center Math Placement Academic Support Degree Planning Meet With Your Advisor Meet Our Staff Faculty Resources First Year STEM Communities Pre Med Career & Research Opportunities Purposeful Pathways Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Meet The Staff Teresa Goyette Director, Student Success Center Teresa has worked for the University for over 32 years, mainly in the University Advising Center, and now most recently in the CSM Student Success Center. Teresa is passionate about incorporating a strengths-based advising approach to aid students in discovering academic programs and careers that align with their talents, interests, and values. Teresa is an advocate of the appreciative advising model, and she is a certified Strengths Coach through the Gallup Organization. Contact: Teresa.Goyette@umb.edu | 617-287-5524 Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 151 - Student Success Center Victoria (Tory) Fahey Assistant Director, Student Success Center Victoria Fahey joined the College of Science and Mathematics Student Success Center in June 2018. A proud alumna of UMass Boston, Victoria is excited to be back on campus and working with CSM students during their academic careers. Victoria’s professional interests include helping first year students transition to the university and focusing on mental health for college students. Throughout her career Victoria has worked to encourage students to be active participants in their college careers through social media, events, and opportunities. A fun fact about Victoria is that she is an avid reader, and is never without a book! Victoria has a MEd in student affairs counseling from Bridgewater State University, and a BA in art from the University of Massachusetts Boston. Contact: Victoria.Fahey@umb.edu | 617-287-3103 Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 151 - Student Success Center Madison Cammarata Student Success Advisor Madison Cammarata received her BA in Human Development & Education and an M.Ed in Higher Education Administration from Merrimack College. Through personal interactions and experiences, she has developed a deep understanding of the impact that structured support and community can have on the student experience. It is her goal to empower students to develop confidence and skills to prepare them for their future. She believes that learning is an iterative process, and she aims to create a space where students are not afraid to fail, but excited to learn. She takes pride in her ability to build relationships with others while maintaining professionalism to ensure overall student success and retention. Fun fact: Madison loves dogs. Especially goldendoodles and she goes to visit her family’s doodles in NY frequently. Contact: Madison.Cammarata@umb.edu | 617-287-3116 Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 148 - Student Success Center Ashley Coady Student Success Advisor Ashley Coady is a proud UMass Boston alumna, having double majored in Criminal Justice and Psychology.   Ashley is eager to help students become members of the UMass Boston academic community through connections to co-curricular, research, and service opportunities.  Through a holistic advising approach, Ashley inspires students to think critically about their educational and professional aspirations, and she prepares them for meaningful post-graduation experiences whether it be continued graduate education, or a job of their dreams. Ashley is an avid concert-goer, and a huge Boston sports fan. Having grown up on Cape Cod, she can be found on the beach with a book in her hands whenever possible. Contact: Ashley.Coady@umb.edu Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 148 - Student Success Center Patricia (Trish) Drew Student Success Advisor Trish Drew (she/her) received a BA in psychology from UMass Boston and an MS in applied educational psychology with a specialization in college student development and counseling from Northeastern University. Trish joined the College of Science and Mathematics in November 2016 as a student success advisor working within the Student Success Center. Previously, she worked as an academic advisor within the College of Liberal Arts for three years. Trish very much enjoys working with students and helping to support them through their educational experience here at UMass Boston. Contact: Patricia.Drew@umb.edu | 617-287-5867 Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 148 - Student Success Center Kathryn (Katie) Jenkins Student Success Advisor Katie Jenkins joined the College of Science and Mathematics Student Success Center in June 2021. She graduated from Southern New Hampshire University with a B.A. in Communication and a minor concentration in Psychology and Child Development, and from Northeastern University with a M.Ed. in Higher Education Administration. She joins the SSC staff after spending four years working with students in the College of Social Sciences and Humanities at Northeastern University. Katie’s professional interests focus on ensuring that every college student has access to the resources needed to be successful through student centered academic advising, academic support, and student engagement. Fun facts about Katie are that she loves dogs (especially rescues), is an avid Celtics fan, and when not walking or playing with her dogs, you can find her in the gym. Contact: Kathryn.Jenkins@umb.edu | 617-287-3143 Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 148 - Student Success Center Michael O’Keefe Student Success Advisor A native of Worcester, MA, with a professional background in social work and the non-profit arena, Michael O’Keefe has consistently centered his career around student support, as well as forging connections among students and colleagues in order to build relationships and drive collective impact. Prior to joining the Student Success Center, Michael worked as the Assistant Directory of First Year Recruitment in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, where he helped to usher in the three classes of Beacons. Passionate about the academic achievements and personal growth of the undergraduate population, Michael is thrilled to be a part of the Students Success Center where he will continue to devote his energy and expertise to serve the UMass community. Michael holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Communication from La Salle University and is currently enrolled in the MBA program at UMass Boston. When not on Columbia Point, Michael can be found exploring his beloved New England with a fishing rod in hand. Contact: Michael.OKeefe@umb.edu | 617-287-3121 Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 148 - Student Success Center Danny O'Hara Student Success Advisor Danny O'Hara is a first-generation graduate of UMass Boston, where he earned his B. A. in English in 2019 and his M. A. in English in 2021. Danny has experienced UMass Boston as a student, teacher, and staff member. As a student, he was an English tutor and a tour guide, and after graduating, he returned to UMass to teach in the English department. He then transitioned to working with international students in the English Language Program, where he developed a passion for helping UMass Boston's global population of students. He joined the Student Success Center in September 2023 as a Life Sciences Advisor. He is committed to providing students with assistance and information that will help them navigate their academic journey, and he is particularly interested in aiding first-generation and international students during their transition to UMass Boston. In his free time, Danny enjoys reading, writing, and watching movies. Contact: Daniel.OHara@umb.edu Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 151 - Student Success Center Joey Paladino Student Success Advisor Joey received his BA with honors in Social Psychology with minors in Philosophy and Creative Writing from UMass Boston in 2020. As a first-generation college student, Joey immersed himself in college life at UMB, and began working as a Beacon Ambassador in Undergraduate Admissions, where his passion for higher education work first sparked. After a year of career advising at Montclair State University in New Jersey, Joey joined the SSC in October of 2023 to serve the students of his alma mater! Contact: Joseph.Paladino@umb.edu | Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 151 - Student Success Center Cameron Ramos Student Success Advisor Cameron Ramos (he/him/his) first joined the Student Success Center in September 2019 as a Graduate Intern. Since then, he graduated from Bridgewater State University in May 2020 with his M.Ed. in student affairs counseling, and has joined the Student Success Center as a Student Success Advisor. Cameron is a proud first-generation college graduate and is passionate about working with this population of students and helping them make the transition to higher education. Cameron’s other professional interests also include student leadership development, learning communities, and utilizing technology to reach students. A fun fact about Cameron is that he is a big fan of all things Disney, Star Wars, Marvel Comics, and New England Revolution soccer. Contact: Cameron.Ramos@umb.edu | 617-287-3101 Office: Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor, Suite 151 - Student Success Center Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms