Sustainability & Resiliency - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Planning & Sustainability Sustainability & Resiliency Menu menu Menu Campus Master Plan Projects Sustainability & Resiliency Energy & Carbon Master Plan SPACE Committee Maps & Floor Plans Sustainability & Resiliency UMass Boston has a strong and longstanding commitment to improving operational sustainability while being a leader in environmental sustainability education and research. Sustainable UMass Boston Sustainable UMass Boston is a collaborative University effort integrating sustainability across academics, research, operations, and community engagement through the active participation of students, staff, faculty, and community partners. The Chancellor's Sustainability Committee advises on goals and activities coordinated by Janna Cohen-Rosenthal, Sustainability & Resiliency Planner in the Office of Campus Planning & Sustainability. Progress to commitments is reported via multiple platforms. "Our commitment to a healthy and sustainable community at UMass Boston will amplify sustainability initiatives at all levels. We seek to foster a consciousness of nature’s centrality to the human experience and our collective obligation to environmental sustainability. We understand that sustainability is not only about environmental and economic impacts, but it is about the overlap and interdependence of environmental and economic issues with restorative justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion." - Our Vision for the Future , Campus Master Plan, 2023 News Earth Month 2024 has an exciting line up of events. Learn about the Sustainability Features in the New Quad UMass Boston Earns Silver STARS Rating for Sustainability Achievements , view the STARS report The Energy & Carbon Master Plan was released in Nov. 2023. Sign up for updates Contact Janna Cohen-Rosenthal Sustainability & Resiliency Planner Office of Campus Planning and Sustainability Campus: x75582 Email LinkedIn Bio Schedule a Sustainability Meet & Greet Commitments & Performance Data at UMass Boston UMass Boston has a goal of zero carbon emissions by 2050. The University is held accountable for this target and other sustainability progress by reporting data and collaborating with the following organizations: Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System (STARS) UMass Boston earned a STARS Silver Rating on Nov. 20, 2023! The Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System (STARS) , is a transparent, self-reporting framework for colleges and to measure their sustainability performance. It is managed by the non-profit  Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE). View UMass Boston's STARS Report Leading By Example The Leading by Example Executive Order: Decarbonizing and Minimizing Environmental Impacts of State Government ( EO 594 ) sets targets and requirements that will eliminate the onsite use of fossil fuels to heat and cool state facilities, electrify the state fleet, among a number of other directives. UMass Boston reports sustainability data annually to the LBE program. View the LBE Progress Dashboard University of Massachusetts President's Office The University Of Massachusetts Sustainability Policy was adopted in 2016. The five University of Massachusetts schools, Amherst, Boston, Dartmouth, Lowell, and Chan Medical School, collaborate to discuss sustainability on their individual campuses to implement the policy and report their progress annually to the President's Office. View UMass System Sustainability Reports Climate Commitment Higher education institutions whose president/chancellor have made a formal commitment to climate leadership by signing onto at least one of the Presidents’ Climate Leadership Commitments , managed by the non-profit Second Nature, become Climate Leadership Network signatories . UMass Boston signed the Climate Commitment, which integrates carbon neutrality with climate resilience and provides a systems approach to mitigating and adapting to a changing climate. In addition, signatories c omplete annual greenhouse gas inventories and a Climate Action Plan that includes: a target date for achieving carbon neutrality as soon as possible defined indicators and targets for increasing resilience a ctions to make carbon neutrality and resilience a part of the curriculum and other educational experiences for all student a ctions to expand research in carbon neutrality and resilience. View Climate Commitment Greenhouse Gas Inventories Additional Memberships & Affiliations Boston Green Ribbon Commission convenes leaders from Boston’s key sectors to advise/implement Boston’s Climate Action Plan. Chancellor Suárez-Orozco is a member, and staff participate in working groups. Higher Ed. Working group: Campus as Lab- Best Practices to Increase the Climate Action Impact of Higher Education Institutions Association for Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) AASHE is a membership organization that empowers higher education faculty, administrators, staff, and students to be effective change agents and drivers of sustainability innovation. Every UMass member can create an account with your umb.edu email to access member resources across many sustainability topics Chancellor's Sustainability Committee The committee is facilitating the integration of Sustainable UMass Boston initiatives across the campus. The Chancellor's Committee on Sustainability made recommendations in the recent Campus Master Plan Update and the Energy and Carbon Master Plan and is working to develop nearer-term actions and targets; progress will be documented in annual reporting platforms . The Sustainability Committee includes members from a cross-section of academic and administrative units. The committee has a rotating chair and establishes subcommittees/task forces as necessary to accomplish each year’s objectives. 2023-2024 Academic Year Chair: Prof. David Timmons, Economics dept. Operations Task Force Living Lab Task Force Curriculum Task Force Engagement Task Force To learn more or join the committee or a task force, contact Janna . On-Campus Partnerships & Sustainability Information Transportation Options Dining Services Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Lab School for the Environment Sustainable UMass Boston Updates Sign up to get the new Sustainable UMass Boston monthly newsletter to get updates across operations, engagement, academics, and research activities. You can submit info to include to janna.cohenrosenthal@umb.edu. Fill in form below,  thank you! Follow Sustainable UMass Boston on Instagram for quick updates to campus and the university community. Sustainable UMass Boston Updates First Name: Last Name: Email: UMass Boston Affiliation: Student Staff Faculty Alumni Community Member Other If other, please explain: Graduation Year: 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 Graduation Year: Title: Department/Major/Organization: What aspects of Sustainability & Resiliency are you interested in? Any comments/question? Contact Information UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms