Grievance Procedure - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Ross Center for Disability Services Students Grievance Procedure Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Meet The Staff Resources Rights Documentation Students Accommodations Faq Grievance Procedure Requesting Accommodations Services Faculty Who Was The Ross Center Founder Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Grievance Procedure Updated September 7, 2021:  The Ross Center understands that there are times when there may be disagreement on a decision regarding accommodations, or problems that may arise during the process of receiving accommodations that have been already determined. If a student wishes to challenge a Ross Center decision of accommodations, or has a complaint about accommodations they are receiving, they should notify the Director of the Ross Center promptly. The Director will evaluate the situation and attempt an informal resolution within 10 business days. If the Ross Center is unable to resolve the matter, or if the student disagrees with the outcome, a complaint can be raised with the Vice Provost for Academic Support Services (Campus Center, 1st floor), who will evaluate the relevant information pertaining to the incident. The complaint should be filed within 10 business days of receiving the resolution decided by the Director of the Ross Center.  Should there need to be further review, the case could be referred to the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX (Quinn, 3rd floor). UMass Boston is obligated to make reasonable accommodations for otherwise qualified individuals with disabilities.  The University is not, however, obligated to provide accommodations that would fundamentally alter the essential components of a course of study or that are unduly burdensome.  Providing accommodations and ensuring access are never done at the expense of the essential standard applied to all students.  Rather than guaranteeing success, accommodations and access provide opportunity and access to otherwise qualified individuals with disabilities. Every effort should be made to resolve the disagreement as expeditiously as possible. Where practicable, each phase of the process should be completed within ten working days. It is important to note that at any time during the process, a student may choose to contact the Office of Civil Rights (617-223-9662) to seek appropriate advice and/or to file a formal complaint. Any ADA/504 grievances that are related to employment/job-related issues, physical access, or activities and events on campus should be directed to the Director in the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms