UMass Boston Celebrates LGBTQ+ Day - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News UMass Boston Celebrates LGBTQ+ Day Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston Celebrates LGBTQ+ Day, Unveils New Pride Logo 04/29/2024 |
    Crystal Valencia This month, the UMass Boston Queer Student Center, in partnership with various campus organizations, hosted an LGBTQ+ Day of Celebration, centered on the spirit of unity, pride, and hope. More than 100 students, faculty, and staff members came out to the celebration, which included an extensive resource fair, drag performances, and a luncheon. Queer Student Center leader Vansh Khokhani and Assistant Vice Chancellor Steven Neville unveil the new UMass Boston PRIDE logo. The day also marked a historic moment for the university as campus leaders unveiled the first official UMass Boston Pride logo. “We are not only witnessing a momentous occasion but also marking a new chapter in the evolution of our UMB,” said Queer Student Center leader Vansh Khokhani. “The importance of this day cannot be overstated. This logo represents more than just a visual symbol—it embodies the collective identity, values, and aspirations of our university community. It reflects who we are, what we stand for, and where we are headed. “The unveiling of the logo is not just a symbol—it's a beacon of hope for every LGBTQ+ individual who has ever felt unseen or unheard. It's a reminder that we are not alone, that our voices matter, and that our presence enriches the fabric of our community,” he said. There has been a long history of support around the LGBTQ+ community on campus, dating back t 1974, when—almost as soon as this campus opened its doors—students founded the UMass Boston Gay People’s Group, and the university opened a space for their meetings. The group became the Lesbian and Gay Center, which worked toward equality and social acceptance, and later helped to support its community during the AIDS epidemic. Fifty years later, the university and what we now call the Queer Student Center, or the Q, collaborated to create a logo that would embody this history and reaffirm UMass Boston’s commitment to inclusivity. “The unveiling of this new Pride logo is such a milestone,” said Assistant Vice Chancellor for Inclusive Excellence Steven Neville. “It is a moment that we can all grasp to get a sense of the momentum that the advocacy, the support, the pain, the compassion, and the sacrifices of many have created.” To mark the unveiling, students received new UMB Pride logo pins and stickers. A resource fair featured both internal and community supports like The Boston Alliance of LGBTQ+ Youth (BAGLY), NAGLY (the North Shore Alliance for GLBTQ+ Youth), PRIDE+, Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, Strong Women Strong Girls, The UMass Boston Women’s Center, Casa Latinx, the Healey Library and University Health Services. Attendees also learned about the recently launched Queer and Trans Studies Minor . During the resource fair, drag performers Candace Persuasion and Lilly Rose Valore wowed the crowd. Persuasion is a 2018 graduate of UMass Boston and a recipient of the Gunner Scott Trans Excellence Award. “If it wasn’t for UMass Boston, I wouldn’t be the queer trans Asian woman that I am today,” she said. “You taught me a lot patience, you taught me to never to give up.…” Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco spoke of the importance of uniting on campus as politicians across the county are articulating legislation and rhetoric that are harming LGBTQ+ communities. “Going forward, UMass Boston 2.0 will continue to be intentional in advancing inclusion in our curriculum, in our campus conversations, in our campus partnerships, and in our campus festivities,” Chancellor Suárez-Orozco said. “To all LGBTQ+ students, faculty, and staff at UMass Boston, please know that we will always stand with you today, this month, every month, and every day of the year.” Student Activities, Student Multicultural Affairs, Graduate Student Government, Undergraduate Student Government, and Student Arts and Events Council all co-sponsored the event. The Queer Student Center is also hosting Lavender Graduation in May, which will celebrate LGBTQ+ students and allies who are graduating this semester. Khokhani said that while the day was about celebrating the LGBTQ+ community at UMass Boston, and honoring the struggles and triumphs of those who paved the way for progress and acceptance, it is also a reminder of the work that still needs to be done. “It's also a call to action to continue advocating for equality and justice for all community members. It's about creating a campus where everyone feels valued, respected, and supported to be their authentic selves,” he said. “It sends a powerful message to the world about the values and vision of UMass Boston—a message of diversity, equity, and social justice.” UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms