Report a Crime Confidentially - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Police Contact Report a Crime Confidentially Menu menu Menu About Our Department Clery Act Motor Vehicle Accident Forms Lost Found Contact Citizen Complaints Accountability Rape Aggression Defense Program R.A.D Safety Escorts Safety On Campus Public Safety & Police Emergency: DIAL 911 General Information &  Dispatch: (617) 287-7777 Tip Line: (617) 287-5555 UMass Boston Police Quinn Administration Building, 1st Floor, Room 100 Directions Confidential Witness Comments & Suggestions Citizen Complaints Parking Ticke ts Lost & Found Weather Related Matters For information on weather-related closings call 617.287.5000 or tune your radio to WBZ 1030 AM, WRKO 680 AM, WBUR 90.9 FM, or WUMB 91.9 FM, or tune your television to WBZ-TV CH 4, WCVB-TV Ch 5, or WHDH-TV Ch 7 for up-to-the-minute information on university cancellations. Please, do not call the Police Department for UMass Boston closing information. Report a Crime Confidentially If you see or hear of something happening that you believe should be brought to the attention of the University Police, you can report it here by filling out the form below. Please provide as much detail as you can about the date, time, location, descriptions or names of involved persons, and details of the incident. A license plate and car description would be very useful if vehicles are involved. It would also be helpful if you would be willing to talk to one of our officers -- if you are willing to help in this way, fill out your contact information on the form. Otherwise, there is no way to trace who sent the information. If you would rather talk with someone on the phone, call (617) 287-7780. Thank you for your assistance in keeping our community safe. Complete the Report a Crime Confidentially Form Type of Incident you wish to report: What date did the incident occur: What time did the incident occur: Please list below the location(s) the incident took place: Did you witness the incident? Yes No Please describe the incident with as much detail as possible: Please list the names of everyone involved in the incident. If you do not know the suspects name, please provide a physical description of their appearance, clothing, etc: If you are willing to allow a UMass Police Officer to contact you, please provide your contact information. Other wise this form will be completely anonymous: We try to check responses to this form daily, but that is not always possible. If your business is urgent, please call the Department at (617) 287-7780. If you have an emergency, please call 911 from any telephone. Contact Information Public Safety & Police Emergency: DIAL 911 General Information &  Dispatch: (617) 287-7777 Tip Line: (617) 287-5555 UMass Boston Police Quinn Administration Building, 1st Floor, Room 100 Directions Confidential Witness Comments & Suggestions Citizen Complaints Parking Ticke ts Lost & Found Weather Related Matters For information on weather-related closings call 617.287.5000 or tune your radio to WBZ 1030 AM, WRKO 680 AM, WBUR 90.9 FM, or WUMB 91.9 FM, or tune your television to WBZ-TV CH 4, WCVB-TV Ch 5, or WHDH-TV Ch 7 for up-to-the-minute information on university cancellations. Please, do not call the Police Department for UMass Boston closing information. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms