Summer Financial Aid - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Financial Aid Apply for Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Menu menu Menu Apply for Financial Aid Eligibility & Important Dates Understanding FAFSA Verification Award Letter Cost Of Attendance Appeals Forms Counseling Staff Summer Financial Aid Winter Financial Aid Maintain Your Eligibility Disbursement of Aid Completing Requirements Online Financial Aid Planner FAFSA Changes Student Loan Repayment Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Graduate Student Financial Aid Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships Summer Aid Visit, chat, email, or schedule a Zoom appointment with The One Stop for answers to your summer financial aid questions. Financial aid-eligible students enrolled in a degree seeking or financial aid eligible certificate program who have completed their 2023-2024 FAFSA application by the June 30, 2024 federal application deadline may be considered for federal financial aid to assist with summer costs. Summer awarding is scheduled to begin the week of May 13 and will be based on enrollment at the time of packaging. Students are encouraged to enroll in all their Summer session courses by May 10 in order to receive a summer award offer based on their total summer enrollment. Changes to summer enrollment may result in reductions/increases to financial aid awards. Summer aid eligibility is based on enrollment in all summer sessions . View summer course offerings and check WISER throughout the summer for up-to-date award information. Summer Options Federal Pell Grant: Awarded to eligible undergraduate students based on the student’s Expected Family Contribution (EFC) and their combined enrollment in all summer sessions. Students who attended full-time in both fall and spring must enroll in at least 6 credits to be considered for summer Pell grant funds. Students should be aware that Pell grant funds will not cover the entire cost of a summer course and that summer Pell grant eligibility counts toward their 600% lifetime eligibility limit (equivalent to 12 full-time semesters). Payment plan: Students may enroll in the summer payment plan offered by the Bursar's Office . Federal Direct Loans : Offered to eligible undergraduate and graduate students that have not borrowed their maximum 2023-2024 academic year Federal Direct loan eligibility AND enroll for a minimum of six (6) summer credits. Federal Direct Plus Loans : Parents of undergraduate students may apply for a Parent Plus loan and graduate students may apply for a Graduate Plus loan online . Eligibility requires student enrollment in at least six (6) summer credits and a positive credit check. Private Loans: Credit based loans available from private lenders which are intended to supplement the student’s Federal Direct loan eligibility or serve as a substitute for families who do not quality for federally supported loans. Students may compare terms and conditions of commonly used private loan options used by students attending the University of Massachusetts Boston and conveniently apply online at ELM Select . Disbursement of Summer Funds Summer financial aid will begin to be disbursed after the Session I course drop deadline date for students with enrollment in Session I. Please be aware that the adjustment of disbursed Federal Pell Grant awards, as a result of changes to the student’s enrollment, may create a balance due on the student’s account that was expected to be covered by grant aid.  The student is responsible for satisfying balances owed based on Federal grant funds disbursed for which the student is no longer eligible to receive. Students enrolled for at least six (6) summer credits with excess funds reflected on their university account should watch for an email from the Bursar Office regarding eligibility for a Financial Aid bookstore advance that can be used at the UMass Boston bookstore to purchase books and supplies. Have questions? The One Stop is available to assist with registration, financial aid and billing questions. Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms