About - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni The CaPE Lab Home CaPE Lab About Menu menu Menu About Instruments Platforms People Publications Research Whats New About Us The C o a stal P rocesses and E cosystems Laboratory (CaPE Lab) is a joint research effort between the School for the Environment (SFE) within the University of Massachusetts Boston (UMass Boston) and the Center for Coastal Studies in Provincetown, Massachusetts. The CaPE Lab is made up of scientists, technicians, engineers, graduate and undergraduate students interested in better understanding the links between physical processes and coastal ecosystems, particularly within a regime of climate change, sea level rise and increasing anthropogenic pressures. The lab is focused primarily on applied research with societal implications but also conducts basic research in the fields of sediment transport, coastal evolution, benthic ecology, as well as other phenomena and features at the marine/terrestrial interface. See our staff list . Dr. Mark Borrelli is the Director of the CaPE Lab. Borrelli joined the Center for Coastal Studies in 2009 and is an associate scientist. He directs their seafloor mapping program and is the chair of the center’s Marine Geology Department. He has been research faculty at UMass Boston since 2010. And follow us on Facebook and Instagram The CaPE Lab 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 617.287.5000 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms