Advancing Early Care And Education via Scholarship - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Early Education Leaders Institute Impact Advancing Early Care And Education via Scholarship Menu menu Menu About Programs Research & Policy Impact Building Political Power Educating Parents And The Public Advancing Early Care And Education via Scholarship Creating Community Advancing Early Care and Education Through Scholarship Advancing early care and education through scholarship: Amanda Lopes Amanda’s story: If you wanted to change your classroom or your teaching practice to more deeply encourage the work of play among your students, how would you do it? The work of young children is play. It’s how they learn beginning concepts of math, science, literacy, and social skills. But as a teacher, how do you measure “play”? Can you identify the common characteristics of high quality imaginative play in the classroom? If you wanted to change your classroom or your teaching practice to more deeply encourage the work of play among your students, how would you do it? Those are the questions that Amanda sought to answer at the Institute’s leadership program. With 20 years’ experience as actor, creative dramatics teaching artist, preschool educator, and early childhood administrator, play was a natural area of interest for her. As she researched creativity and imaginative play, however, she learned that there was not a large body of research about these questions. “There were so many different interpretations of what pretend or imagination or make believe is for children,” Amanda says, noting that the lack of a basic definition of “play” made it difficult to talk about, much less quantify, quality measures. So Amanda developed the outline for a plan to develop an assessment that would not only create a shared definition of imaginative play, but also provide a resource for teachers so that they could evaluate their classrooms’ ability to support creative and imaginative thinking. She has enrolled in the inaugural class of the PhD Program in Early Childhood Education and Care at UMass Boston to continue her research. Prior to Amanda’s work at the UMass Boston leadership program, researchers had not designed a way for early educators to measure imaginative play and the teaching strategies that nurture it. Scholar-practitioners like Amanda, who come from within the field of ECE, are best positioned to lead inquiry into quality improvements, and lead efforts to implement them. Institute for Early Education Leadership and Innovation 150 Mt. Vernon St. Suite 458 Boston, MA 02125-3393 This institute is part of the College of Education and Human Development . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms