Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Office for Faculty Development Resources Menu menu Menu About Mid Career Faculty NTT Faculty Resources Pre Tenure Faculty Resources Graduate Teaching Program Registration Form Reflective Teaching Statement Guidelines And Faqs Resources for DPC & CPC Committees Resources for Department Chairs Resources for Graduate Teaching Assistants Retired Faculty Resources Scholarly Writing Resources Teaching Learning Graduate Teaching Program Announcements Join the Fall 2022 Weekly Graduate Writing Group At the University of Massachusetts Boston teaching is one of three pillars of faculty excellence, along with research and service. The Graduate Teaching Program (GTP) offers graduate students an opportunity to learn about teaching from the university’s many expert instructors and to develop their own skills and reflective capacities in ways that are useful in both academic and non-academic settings. Students who complete the program will receive a notation on their transcript—a significant form of documentation that can be referenced on résumés, graduate school and job applications. There is no application for the GTP. Students already enrolled in graduate programs that include teaching assistantships and teaching seminars can simply register. Please note that the GTP does not arrange teaching opportunities or teaching seminars. Teaching assistantships, when available, are based in the home department. The GTP is designed to supplement and recognize the experience and preparation of teaching assistants without getting in the way of one’s degree progress. ( Visit the Registration page .) Graduate Teaching Program Requirements Attend one Fall Graduate Orientation Work as TA or Instructor of Record GTP Level 1: Teach as a TA for two semesters, in person or online GTP Level 2: Teach as an instructor of record for two semesters or as an instructor of record for one semester and TA for one semester at UMass Boston Successfully complete a one-semester teaching seminar. (CLICK HERE FOR A LIST OF SEMINARS) Attend three Center for Innovative Teaching, e-Learning, OFD, department-level teaching  forums/workshops, or GTP-approved LinkedIn Learning webinars . Attend two sessions at the annual Conference on Teaching, Learning, and Technology, or attend two sessions at the annual Teaching Symposium, or take a self-paced, online training course in Blackboard. (Send your request for this course to: learningdesign@umb.edu . Print the certificate of completion issued by elearning after you've taken the course and use as your criteria completion form.) Write a reflective teaching statement of approximately 750-1500 words. ​​ Documenting Your Progress When you sign up for the GTP we will provide you with the forms you need to have signed by the faculty or staff facilitator of each of the above requirements. It will be your responsibility to keep these records until you are ready to apply for confirmation of program completion. We recommend scanning signed forms as well as saving the originals. Forms are also available for you to download and/or print in MS Word format: GTP Criteria Completion Form Your teaching statement should be written at the end of the process and submitted to your designated teaching statement advisor for approval. Once it is approved, you can submit all your materials for review and certification of program completion. For details on preparing your statement, carefully read the Reflective Teaching Statement Guidelines and FAQs. Please note that we cannot retroactively grant credit for events and workshops attended prior to registering for the GTP. Transcript Notation Each participant who completes the Graduate Teaching Program will receive a notation on their transcript. See Also Graduate Studies UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms