Get IT Equipment Loaners - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Hardware & Labs Get IT Equipment Loaners Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Hardware Purchase Request A Computer Get IT Equipment Loaners Faq Repair Adaptive Computer Lab Labs Print Surplus Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Get IT Welcome to Get IT, home of the Technology Loaner Program for faculty and staff. Students can request a Chromebook here Access the Get IT Portal The Technology Loaner Program In March, IT made a number of laptops available for a "Technology Loaner Program". Today we are announcing a large expansion of that program, including PC and Mac laptops, but also including the addition of desktop computers, as well as external monitors, headsets/microphones, and webcams. All equipment is brand new and in-box for easy pickup and transport home. The Tech Loaner Program Expansion is available to all staff and faculty on a first come-first serve basis. Any employee can simply log into the portal and make their reservation. Click the button above and log in with your UMass Boston account to start the loan process. For more information: please see our Get IT / Technology Loaner Program FAQ . What is the Get IT Portal? We are also announcing a new technology system to facilitate requesting these technology loans, called "Get IT", a web application created to guide patrons of the Technology Loaner Program through the process of requesting computers and accessories from our inventory.  Get IT helps automate the Property Pass process via the DocuSign system, and gives the IT team the information needed to prepare your equipment and set up a zero-touch pickup. How does this work? Here are the steps you will take via Get IT for the Technology Loaner Program: Step 1: Login and select your preferred computer and accessories. Step 2: Enter your supervisor’s email, and the location you will use the loaner equipment. Step 3: Submit, and you will get a property pass emailed to you via DocuSign.  Click the “Review Document” button in the email and sign the form. Step 4: Next, your supervisor will get the property pass and will also need to sign it for approval. Step 5: Now that your Technology Loan has been approved, you will be contacted by IT Desktop via email, to correspond and schedule a pickup. Step 6: Go to the ISC Roundabout (between Quinn and ISC) at your scheduled Pickup time to receive your Loaner Technology through a zero-contact curbside pickup.  Bring your Driver’s License or UMass Boston ID! Bonus: When you are ready to return your equipment, come back to Get It and log in again, to start the process of a return. Still have questions? Contact us for real-time help with IT Live Chat Support: umb.edu/it/help Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms