McCormack Institutes - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home The McCormack School Research McCormack Institutes Menu menu Menu Academics Research McCormack Institutes Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Governance Public Policy & Public Affairs McCormack Institutes of International & Public Service The John W McCormack School of Policy and Global Studies was founded in 1983 as the John W. McCormack Institute of Public Affairs as an applied public policy research center focusing on issues of immediate concern to Boston, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the New England region, and by 1991 - the World. In 2010, the Institute further expanded to become the small, college-school that it is today convening nationally and internationally recognized policy studies education that fuses applied policy research and public service in a single mission via graduate training and advanced, undergraduate teaching and learning. In addition to three academic departments and fourteen programs, the current School delivers its historical, educational mission through seven major outreach and research centers and institutes – the Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration (MOPC), the Edward J. Collins Jr. Center, the John Joseph Moakley Chair of Peace and Reconciliation, the Center for Women and Politics in Public Policy (CWPPP), Center for Social Policy (CSP), the Center for Peace, Democracy, and Development (CPDD), the Center for Governance and Sustainability, and the Gerontology Institute (which includes the LeadingAge Center for Long-Term Service and Support, Osher LifeLong Learning Institute (OLLI), the Pension Action Center (PAC), and Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging). Like the Institute that gave birth to the School almost 40 years later, today’s conglomeration of McCormack centers and institutes, ergo The McCormack Institutes of International and Public Service (MIIPS) , provide for students and faculty a bridge to a rich network of connections and external partnerships with nonprofits, public agencies, and community organizations that create meaningful intellectual and experiential exchanges in extensive community engagement and outreach on and off campus. Centers & Institutes Center for Governance and Sustainability Global scholars working in solidarity to produce and circulate research at the science-policy interface. Edward J. Collins Jr. Center for Public Management Providing professional services to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of government. The John Joseph Moakley Distinguished Professor of Peace and Reconciliation Reinforcing a commitment to nonviolent methods in the reconciliation process. Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy Promoting women's political leadership through quality education and policy research. Center for Peace, Democracy, and Development Promoting conflict resolution, democracy, economic development, education, media, legal and judicial reform. Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration Facilitating collaboration and building capacity for conflict resolution and consensus building with government and across state sectors. Center for Social Policy Dedicated to improving efficiency, effectiveness, governance, and accountability at all levels of government, with a particular focus on state and local government. MIIPS Convenors/ Administrative Support Rita Kiki Edozie , Interim Dean and Professor of Global Governance and International Relations Christopher Graham , Manager, Student Success and Undergraduate Advising (and Multimedia Manager) McCormack's Center and Institute Directors Stacy Vandeveer , Director, Center for Governance and Sustainability | 617.287.7263, stacy.vandeveer @umb.edu Darren Kew , Executive Director, Center for Peace, Democracy, and Development | 617.287.7428; darren.kew@umb.edu Jan Mutchler , Director Gerontology Institute and Director, Center for Social and Demographic Research on Aging | 617.287.7321; jan.mutchler@umb.edu Susan R. Crandall , Director, Center for Social Policy | 617.287.5565; susan.crandall@umb.edu Michael Ward ,  Director, Edward J. Collins Jr. Center for Public Management | 617.287.4824; michael.ward@umb.edu Laurie Nsiah-Jefferson , Director, Center for Women in Public Policy | 617.287. 5554; LA.NsiahJefferson@umb.edu Padraig O'Malley , John Joseph Moakley Chair of Peace and Reconciliation | 617.291.1845; Padraig.OMalley@umb.edu or email nancy.riordan@umb.edu Marc Cohen , Director,  LeadingAge LTSS Center | 617.287.7306; marc.cohen@umb.edu Susan Jeghelian , Executive Director, Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration| | 617.287.4047; susan.jeghelian@umb.edu Madhawa Palihapitiya , Associate Director, Massachusetts Office of Public Collaboration | 617.287.4036; madhawa.palihapitiya@umb.edu James (Jim) Hermelbracht , Director, Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) | 617.287. 7090; james.hermelbracht@umb.edu Anna-Marie Tabor ,  Director and Managing Attorney, Pension Action Center | 617.287.7332; AnnaMarie.Tabor@umb.edu Rebecca Herst , Director, Sustainable Solutions Lab | 617.297.6630; rebecca.herst@umb.ed UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms