Repair - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Information Technology Hardware & Labs Repair Menu menu Menu Help Software & Systems Hardware & Labs Hardware Purchase Request A Computer Get IT Equipment Loaners Repair Adaptive Computer Lab Labs Print Surplus Training & Classroom Support Security Research & Innovation About Information Technology Hardware - Repair, Support Announcements Instead of sending equipment to surplus, consider donating it to IT for reuse . PC Repair Shop Information Repair Disposal of Obsolete Equipment Recycling of Unwanted Equipment All inquiries for the PC Repair Shop should go through the IT Service Desk: Location: 3rd Floor, Healey Library (mail drop: 090-03-007). Hours: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Phone: 617.287.5220 Email: itservicedesk@umb.edu Service Supply UL-039 We are a Dell Certified Self Maintainer for equipment purchased through UMass Boston, including servers, printers, and personal computers. We are an Apple Authorized Service (AASP) provider. However, we do not service iPods, iPads, or iPhones. Services we provide: In-shop and on-campus computer and printer repair for university-owned, staff or faculty equipment. This includes warranty repair for the manufacturers specified above and subject to UMass IT Department and OEM vendor policies. We also provide best effort repairs on other IT-related equipment that is out of warranty. Out of warranty parts are paid for by the department requesting the repair and are not the responsibility of the IT department. Upgrade assistance, including the gathering of information and the installation of parts for Dell and Apple hardware and HP printers. Other upgrade assistance is provided at the discretion of the Service Center. Unlocking of security devices originally furnished and installed by the Service Center. Destruction of hard drives slated for disposal. This process includes degaussing, controller removal and physical damage to the internal mechanism. The Service Center staff is not permitted to move or relocate equipment unless it is initiated through one of the provided services. Please contact the facilities or property departments if your office is being relocated and you need assistance with this. The Information Technology Division picks up unused, university-owned (including professional development funded) computer equipment containing data storage from any department or office on campus provided you have completed the paperwork requirements dictated by the Property Department and initiated the procedure through the IT Service Desk. Phone: 617.287.5220 Email: ITServiceDesk@umb.edu Location: Healey Library, 3rd Floor We do not pick up peripherals such as monitors, keyboards, mice or small printers that do not have data storage capacity such as a hard drive installed. We will use old equipment for parts, if appropriate. We will dispose of equipment and forward the completed and required surplus process paperwork for you, if appropriate. But you still need to fill out a form before we pick up your equipment. Please visit the equipment disposal site for more details. Please do not drop off computers without making prior arrangements with us and having the paperwork completed at your end. Equipment Turn-in Customer needs to call Facilities first to create a ticket and request surplus forms. Departments will complete the PRO-01-IT Data Storage prior to pickup by the IT department for computer equipment with data storage being removed. Departments will be responsible for knowing whether a piece of equipment holds data. Departments will complete the PRO-02-Moveable Equipment Surplus Form for computer equipment without data storage prior to pickup by the property/facilities departments. Forms The IT Department will pick up surplus computer equipment for the purpose of purging data.  This equipment includes but is not limited to the following categories: computer towers, laptops, servers, notebooks, portable hard drives, backup tapes, iMacs, Blackberries, and iPhones, as well as other equipment that may hold or store data. For more information, contact the IT Service Desk. Location: 3rd Floor, Healey Library (maildrop: 090-03-007). Hours: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Phone: 617.287.5220 Email: itservicedesk@umb.edu Recycling unwanted equipment Do you hate to throw away a computer that may still be usable? Are you looking to get rid of old or non-working and not-cost-effective-to-repair university-owned computers? Maybe the computer will be useful elsewhere in the university community. The University of Massachusetts Boston uses two processes for the disposal of older or no longer working computing equipment. Both processes can be initiated by contacting the Facilities Department or IT Service Desk. Surplus and disposal go through Facilities to the Property Department. We would like to ask you to consider a third option . If you have business class desktop computers or laptops, please consider option 3: transferring them to the IT Department. The IT Department will determine whether these items can be repurposed and reissued to other faculty, staff or departments for which they would be an upgrade or improvement from assets currently available to them. Here is the good news. By asset transferring them, you will only need one form. IT will help you complete the paperwork for equipment that we might be able to use. Please contact the PC Repair Center for assistance with filling out this form. At that point, you would create a service request with the IT Service Desk for an asset transfer to the IT Department. The IT Department can then pick up the equipment directly.  Any further documentation, whether to have the items surplus and disposed of if they prove unusable, or reissued to another department should they be of use, will be taken care of by IT without any further action on your part. For your convenience, the three options are listed below. The PRO-02-Moveable Equipment Surplus form is used for computer-related equipment that does not contain data storage, such as monitors, keyboards, and mice. These items are picked up directly by the Property Department. The PRO-01-IT Data Storage form is for computer equipment or printers that contain data storage and may require additional action to ensure the destruction of any data remaining on a data storage device. The PRO-06-Internal Transfer Sheet for transfers from one department to another. With this option, IT will pick up the system including the mice, keyboards, and monitors. We will wipe any hard drives which might contain data with a disk sanitizer utilizing the DOD clear standard and then reinstall and reconfigure a current operating system and applications. Forms and more related resources . Information Technology Services Healey Library, 3rd Floor 617.287.5220 ITServiceDesk@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms