Cucel - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home International & Comparative Education Cucel Menu menu Menu Cucel Research Projects Training Programs Graduate Programs Institute Staff Research Projects And Collaborations Research Strands Center for U.S. China Educational Leadership Overview The purpose of the Center for U.S.-China Educational Leadership (CUCEL) is to train, support, and provide research opportunities for a diverse group of educators who are committed to acting on the principles of academic excellence and global citizenship. CUCEL’s three founding partners currently engaged in collaborations are the University of Massachusetts Boston, the High School Affiliated with Renmin University of China , and Beijing No.2 Experimental Primary School . The High School Affiliated with Renmin University of China is the best of its kind in China. It has developed partnerships with Chinese universities, and has played a significant role in high school educational reform. Beijing No.2 Experimental Primary School has a century-old history. Its many contributions, honors, and achievements have made it one of the leading primary schools in China. CUCEL engages in activities related to the three levels of comprehensive educational systems (university, primary school, middle/high school), with a focus on urban education, and will establish relationships with more partners in the near future. CUCEL's training programs and research projects are illustrated in the following chart. Institute for International and Comparative Education 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.4873 WenFan.Yan@umb.edu This institute is part of the College of Education and Human Development. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms