When There Is Disagreement - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Ross Center for Disability Services Faculty When There Is Disagreement Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Meet The Staff Resources Rights Documentation Students Faculty Accommodations Faculty Notification FAQ Faculty When There Is Disagreement Who Was The Ross Center Founder Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office When There is a Disagreement If an academic accommodation which has been determined to be appropriate by the Ross Center is challenged by faculty or staff, the accommodation must be provided in a timely manner, pending review as follows: The faculty member will present to the Director of the Ross Center reasons why the requested accommodation compromises the essential requirements of a course or program. The Director of the Ross Center will attempt to resolve the issue. If it is determined that the requested accommodation does, in fact, compromise the course or program requirements, alternate types of equivalent accommodations will be discussed. If no equivalent modifications can be determined or if the instructor disagrees with the proposed resolution, relevant information will be presented to the ADA Compliance Officer or Appeals Committee. A decision on the matter will be rendered after careful deliberation and discussion. The ADA Compliance Officer's or the Appeals Committee's decision may be appealed to the Chancellor. The Chancellor or a designee will then resolve the matter based on the following process. The designee will review the facts of the situation, review how the grievance process was conducted, then render a decision. The Chancellor will respond in writing. Every effort should be made to resolve the disagreement as expeditiously as possible. In general, each phase of the process should be completed within ten working days. As described above, the accommodation must be provided by the instructor until or unless it is either set aside or modified by the Director of the Ross Center or the ADA Compliance Officer . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms