Graduation - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Graduation Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Policies Forms Graduation Applying Diplomas & Certified Electronic Credentials Graduation Process Faculty & Staff Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Graduation Announcement December 2024 degree applications are open, Apply in WISER by October 25 UMass Boston has three graduation dates where we confer (award) degrees: Spring/May 31, Summer/August 31, and Fall/December 31. University Events hosts the annual Commencement Ceremonies at the end of May. Graduation is when a student successfully completes all of their academic requirements and their degree is conferred. The Graduation Team handles that academic process. Graduation is not an automatic process – all students must apply for graduation by the application deadlines to ensure that your record is reviewed for degree conferral. Commencement is the ceremony that honors students who graduated in December and all students applied for the May or August graduation dates. University Events manages the ceremony side of graduation. Ceremony attendance is optional and only guaranteed if you apply for graduation by the published deadlines. Please note: The ceremony dates change every year, and details are posted on the Commencement website as they are available. Planning and Applying for Graduation Everyone must apply for graduation! Review the Graduation Checklists to make sure you are on track to graduate and learn the steps for submitting a graduation application in WISER. Graduation Related FAQ’s Find answers to common inquiries related to the academic side of graduation and the ceremony. Diploma Information Learn more about receiving your Paper and Certified Electronic Diploma after your degree is awarded. Such as when diplomas become available and how to access them. Commencement, University Events & Ceremonies Our Events Team plans the annual commencement ceremonies that are held in the spring of each year. Details are posted as they become available. Contact The Graduation Team: Undergraduate Graduation ugrad@umb.edu Graduate Graduation graduate.records@umb.edu Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms