Forms - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Dean Of Students Forms Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Emergency Aid Fund Services for Faculty & Staff Forms Resources for Parents And Families Referral & Complaint Forms Resources for Students Services for Students Contact Us Student Conduct Process Current Students Forms FERPA Submit a FERPA Waiver through this DocuSign link A federal law called the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974 establishes that the access to UMass Boston student records has requirements designed to protect the privacy of parents and students regarding review or release of records. The Act permits current or former students to review certain documents such as permanent academic records and disciplinary records but prevents the University from releasing such information without written permission. When completing the FERPA release form , it must be signed by the student and submitted to the Dean of Students Office. Please review this website for more information on FERPA . Dean's Certification Submit all Dean’s Certification and College Report requests through this DocuSign link Submitting Your Request The Dean of Students Office maintains all student disciplinary records. We do not accept Dean’s Certification or College Report requests through email or through electronic submission links from other schools. To obtain information on your disciplinary history, please submit our Dean's Certification form through this DocuSign link along with forms from any program or job to which you are applying that require the clearance. The forms that you attach to your DocuSign submission should have your portion filled out and be in PDF format. Incomplete submissions will delay your request. If there is missing information or forms, we will email you to let you know what is missing and instruct you to resubmit your request. After we receive your request, we will send you a notification to your UMass Boston email with information regarding next steps. Before we begin processing your request, you must have an Exit Interview with a Dean of Students staff member. This process does not withdraw you from the university. To formally withdraw from the University of Massachusetts Boston, please consult your academic advisor. Form Process When completing your forms, the Dean of Students Office provides information pertaining only to your disciplinary history, but will forward forms to the Registrar’s Office for completion of any academic information requests. Once the forms are completed, we send your request to the destination(s) you listed on the Dean’s Certification form. If your form must be mailed to the institution, we will email you your completed form to the email address you listed for yourself on the Dean’s Certification request and you can print and mail it to the institution directly. Processing Time Please allow a minimum of 10 business days for processing all requests. The Dean of Students Office processes forms on a first-come, first served basis and we are unable to expedite records processing. Notice of Absence Request Submit an Notice of Absence form with documentation The university recognizes that there are legitimate and verifiable circumstances that may occasionally result in a student’s absence from class. Reasons could include: religious observance, jury duty, military obligations, personal illness/health procedures and/or serious Illness or injury of an immediate family member, death in the family. The notice of absence form is intended for students looking to receive a notice of absence for one or more courses. It is the student's responsible to provide all necessary information and documentation prior to an notice of absence being granted. Completing this form accurately will ensure your faculty is notified as soon as possible. Please note: A meeting with a Dean of Students Office staff member may be necessary prior to a notification being sent to faculty. Additional information on the Notice of Absence Policy. Secure Document Submission Submit a document to our office using our Secure Document Submission form at this DocuSign link . Please do not submit excused absence or college report requests through this link. Dean of Students Office Campus Center, Floor 2 617.287.5800 dean.students@umb.edu If this is an emergency call the UMass Boston Police at 617.287.7777 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms