Scholarships & Financial Support - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Education Scholarships & Financial Support Menu menu Menu Research & Engagement Academic Departments School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Student Success Scholarships & Financial Support Alumni Spotlight Faculty & Staff Dean's Office Scholarships & Financial Support The College of Education and Human Development provides numerous scholarships and grants that offer financial support directly to deserving students. Merit-Based Scholarship Office The largest scholarships and followings administered by the Merit-Based Scholarship Office support students in the education field. Priority for these competitive scholarships will be given to students who are competing their student field-based work on a full-time, unpaid basis during the semester immediately following when their application is submitted. Questions about these scholarships can be directed to the Merit Scholarship Coordinator, Dan MacLeod . Department of Leadership in Education: Alumni Award for Dissertation Research A group of doctoral graduates from the Department of Leadership in Education at UMass Boston established an endowed fund to provide dissertation support to future students in the Higher Education and Urban Education, Leadership, and Policy Studies Programs. Doctoral candidates whose dissertation proposals have been accepted by their committees are eligible to apply. The Alumni Award provides up to four $1,000 grants to students in these programs on an annual basis. Students are eligible to receive only one Alumni Award during their program of study; thus, previous recipients of the Alumni Award are not eligible to apply. If you have questions about the application process, contact Patricia Krueger-Henney, chair of the Alumni Award for Dissertation Research Committee, at patricia.krueger@umb.edu . Higher Education Program: Gamson Fellowship The Higher Education Program established a fellowship in honor of program founder Professor Zelda F. Gamson upon her retirement from UMass Boston in 1999. From 1988 to 1999, Gamson founded and directed the New England Resource Center for Higher Education (NERCHE), a center that organized higher education in New England by convening academic leaders in colleges and universities across the region to promote organizational change in higher education. This fellowship provides dissertation support for doctoral candidates by recognizing innovative and creative dissertation research. All UMass Boston Higher Education Program doctoral students whose dissertation proposals have been approved by their dissertation committees are eligible to apply. Previous recipients of the Gamson Fellowship, however, are not eligible. If you have questions about the application process, contact the Higher Education Program at highereducation@umb.edu . Higher Education Program: Giles Fellowship In honor of Professor Emeritus of Higher Education Dwight Giles and his contributions to the field of higher education, the Higher Education Program established the Dwight E. Giles, Jr. Fellowship Fund upon his retirement in 2016. This fellowship is presented annually to a Higher Education Program doctoral candidate whose dissertation research best advances the mission of the Higher Education Program. The first recipient of the fellowship will be announced in 2020. If you have questions about the application process, contact the Higher Education Program at highereducation@umb.edu . Higher Education Program: Sandra L. Kanter Travel Grant The Kanter Fund is named in honor of the late Sandy Kanter, a founding higher education faculty member, program director, and department chair.  Kanter Travel Grants are awarded to Higher Education Program students for travel to recognized conferences. Priority will be given to students who have applied for, or have received, travel stipends from the UMass Boston Graduate Student Assembly . The Kanter Travel Grant seeks to supplement other sources of funding, with an award of $400. Previous recipients of the Kanter Travel Grant are eligible to apply in subsequent years. If you have questions about the application process, contact the Higher Education Program at highereducation@umb.edu . University of Massachusetts Boston Grants Doctoral Dissertation Research Grant Program National Dissertation Grants American Education Research Association (AERA) Dissertation Grant Minority Dissertation Fellowship Program in Education Research American Association of University Women Dissertation Fellowships National Academy of Education/Spencer Dissertation Fellowship Program College of Education and Human Development Wheatley Hall, 1st Floor, Room 77 617.287.7600 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms