This is an archived version of the UMass Boston website, which may contain outdated information. Visit the latest website. Skip to Content Return to Home Page Menu Search Submit Site Search MyUMass Password Management Email Blackboard WISER Here4U HR Direct UMBeInvolved Mobile App Travel Registry UMass Boston Resources Academic Calendar Student Success Bookstore Bursar Calendar Course Listings Directory Financial Aid Getting Here Housing Information Technology Library UMass Boston News Registrar Navigate Apply to UMass Boston Visit UMass Boston College-Wide Academics UMass Boston Research Athletics About UMass Boston Give Info for Students Info for Parents & Families Info for Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Course Listings Course Listings Undergraduate Graduate Course Wizard 2023 Fall 2024 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 Summer 2024 Fall Course Search Search for Courses First Year Seminars Intermediate Seminars Intercampus Course Exchange (ICX) College Wide College of Advancing and Professional Studies College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences College of Science and Mathematics Honors College McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies School for the Environment all > GRAD > nursng > nursng 790 Integrating concepts & methods for research development Course #: NURSNG 790 Description: This course prepares students in their development of the required elements for the comprehensive exams, which precede the conduct of dissertation research. Students will formulate coherent philosophical, theoretical, conceptual, and methodological understandings in their appraisal of knowledge gained from previous coursework. Considerations for new inquiry that advance nursing science and health sciences will be explored. Conducting an effective and comprehensive review of the literature or policy analysis from conceptual and methodological perspectives will also be emphasized. This course is designed to give doctoral students opportunities to engage classmates and professors in dialogue and discussion about integrating concepts and methods into the process of research development. Students should take advantage of this opportunity to build their research community by engaging fully in class discussion with fellow students and faculty. Pre Requisites: Offered in: 2024 Spring Section Class Number Schedule/Time Instructor Location 01 8038 Tu 5:00 - 7:45 pm Hayman,Laura L REMOTE Session: Regular Class Dates: 01/22/2024 - 05/08/2024 Capacity: 20 Enrolled: 13 Status: Open Credits: 3/3 Class Notes: Pre Requisites: Course Attributes: Accessibility Statement ADA Document Converter Employment Privacy & Terms Student Consumer Information UMass Boston Alert UMass System Contact UMass Boston © 2024 University of Massachusetts Boston 100 William T. Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125-3393 | Tel: 617.287.5000