Daniel.Gascon - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Daniel.Gascon Luis Gascon Department: Sociology Title: Assistant Professor Associate Professor Send Email Website Biography My name is Daniel Gascón. I am an Associate Professor in the Department of Sociology at the University of Massachusetts Boston and a Research Fellow at the W.E.B. Du Bois Center at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. I am the lead author of the 2019 book, The Limits of Community Policing: Civilian Power and Police Accountability in Black and Brown Los Angeles , and the lead author of the 2024 book, Policing and State Crime in the Americas: Southern and Postcolonial Perspectives . I have published in journals such as Critical Sociology , Social Justice, Social Problems and Race & Justice . Currently, I teach courses in criminology and criminal justice, and qualitative methodology. Area of Expertise Police & Policing Juvenile Delinquency Civil & Human Rights Marx & Marxism Chicana/o/x Studies Black Studies Urban Ethnography Degrees PhD, Criminology, Law & Society with a Critical Theory emphasis, University of California, Irvine Professional Publications & Contributions Books: Gascón, D., Mejia-Mesinas, A., Perez, X., Sanabria, J., and Sclofsky, S. (2024). Policing and State Crime in the Americas: Postcolonial and Southern Perspectives. Palgrave-MacMillan. Gascón, D. & Roussell, A. (2019). The Limits of Community Policing: Civilian Power and Police Accountability in Black and Brown Los Angeles a> . New York University Press. Book Chapters: Gascón, D., Mejia-Mesinas, A., Perez, X., Sanabria, J., and Sclofsky, S. (2024). Introduction: Policing and State Crime: A View from the South. In Policing and State Crime in the Americas: Postcolonial and Southern Perspectives. Palgrave-MacMillan. Gascón, D., Mejia-Mesinas, A., Perez, X., Sanabria, J., and Sclofsky, S. (2024). Conclusion: Our South is North. In Policing and State Crime in the Americas: Postcolonial and Southern Perspectives. Palgrave-MacMillan. Gascón, D., Seri, G., and Wall, T. (2024). Chapter 14: Defining the State and Its Crimes. In Policing and State Crime in the Americas: Postcolonial and Southern Perspectives. Palgrave-MacMillan. Gascón, D. and Barrera, N. (2024). Chapter 15: Observing the State. In Policing and State Crime in the Americas: Postcolonial and Southern Perspectives. Palgrave-MacMillan. Gascón, D., Goltz, J., Sanabria, J. and McQuade, B. (2024). Chapter 16: State Policy from Now On. In Policing and State Crime in the Americas: Postcolonial and Southern Perspectives. Palgrave-MacMillan. Gascón, D. (2023). Structural Strain, Intersectionality, and Mass Murder: A Case Study of the Isla Vista Shooting. In All American Massacre: The Tragic Role of American Culture and Society in Mass Shootings , edited by Madfis, E. and Lankford, A. New York: New York University Press. Gascón, L.D. & Kaufman, J.C. (2010). “Both sides of the coin? Personality, deviance and creative behavior.” In D. Cropley, A. Cropley, J. Kaufman, M. Runco (Eds.), The Dark  Side of Creativity (pp. 235-254). New York: Cambridge University Press. Articles: Gascón, D. (2023). The Hispanic Outreach: Network Analysis of a Community-Based Policing Program in South Los Angeles. Critical Sociology, 0(0) . Gascón, D. (2023). Uncomfortable Kinship: An Ethnography on the Professional World of Gang Experts and Street Outreach Workers in South Los Angeles. Social Justice, Vol. 49 (1): 81-110. Gascón, D. & Roussell, A. (2018). An Exercise in Failure: Punishing At-Risk Youth & Families in a South Los Angeles Boot Camp Program. Race & Justice, Vol. 8 (3): 270 297. Roussell, A., & Gascón, D. (2014). “Defining ‘policeability’: Cooperation, control, and resistance in South Los Angeles community police meetings.” Social Problems, Vol. 6 (2): 237-258. Book Review: Gascón, L.D. (2019) " Surviving Gangs, Violence and Racism in Cape Town: Ghetto Chameleons by Marie Rosenkrantz Lindegaard," American Journal of Sociology 125, no. 3: 881-883. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms