Pre Tenure Faculty - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Office for Faculty Development Pre Tenure Faculty Menu menu Menu About Mid Career Faculty NTT Faculty Resources Pre Tenure Faculty 4Th Year Review Tenure Endowed Faculty Career Development Award Junior Faculty Research Seminar Resources Resources for DPC & CPC Committees Resources for Department Chairs Resources for Graduate Teaching Assistants Retired Faculty Resources Scholarly Writing Resources Teaching Learning Pre Tenure Faculty Resources Resources 4th Year Review and Tenure Preparation workshop Accountability Writing Group for Faculty of Color CIT Forums Civic Engagement Engagement Curriculum (Re)Design Modules Conference on Teaching, Learning and Technology Individual consultation upon request Junior Faculty Research Seminar Pre-tenure Faculty Teaching Seminar (CIT) Scholarly Publishing Advice and Editing OER (Open Educational Resources)/Low-Cost Course Materials Monthly events calendar New Faculty Guide- Helpful Links Organization of Major Files Pedagogy Guide for new instructors who assign and assess writing Resources for Instructors and TAs teaching large classes (OFD/CLA) *This list does not include college-specific, IT or ORSP training services though all help to compose the network of support at the university for probationary faculty. The OFD monthly events calendar sent to all faculty does list many of the trainings. Also, not all the items above are exclusively for junior faculty. North Star Collective Fellowship NSC Press Release: We are pleased to share with you the latest press release from the New England Board of Higher Education (NEBHE), which announces UMASS-Boston faculty as members of the 2024 cohort. A copy of the press release is attached. You are welcome to use information from the press release, our NSC website , or program brochure in any of your communications about the Collective. We would love to know if and when you share this information with your publics (on social media, local publications, inter-campus communications, etc.). Please send us a quick note at reparativejustice@nebhe.org . Website: North Star Collective Contact: reparativejustice@nebhe.org UMass Boston’s 2024 NSC Cohort Bodunrin O. Banwo is an assistant professor in the Department of Leadership in Education at The University of Massachusetts, Boston. Before joining UMass Boston, Professor Banwo worked in youth and community development for over two decades. Dr. Banwo received his Ph.D. in Education Policy and Leadership from the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, where he focused on how African-centered educational institutions serve as social refuges for African parents seeking to find anti-racist, anti-black socialization spaces for their children. Dr. Banwo is honored to have been selected for the 2024 North Star Collective fellowship and plans to share and refine his work on organizational theory, particularly his work on the connection between educational and social practices and school formal structures. Through this fellowship, Bodunrin also hopes to begin a book outline about different school organizational structures and their connections to student outcomes and life goals. Miguel Montalva Barba is an assistant professor in the Department of Sociology and Criminology at UMass Boston. Before joining UMB, Dr. Montalva Barba was an assistant professor of sociology and the Latinx Student Success Fellow at the Center for Justice and Liberation at Salem State University. Miguel received his Ph.D. in Sociology from Northeastern University and has a Masters in Sociology and a Dual-Baccalaureate in Music and Sociology from California State University, Los Angeles. Dr. Montalva Barba’s research focuses on White gentrifiers and their role in maintaining racialized inequality, highlighted in his forthcoming book, White Supremacy in Progressive America: Race, Place, and Space (June 2024, Bristol University Press), and on the intersection of urban sociology and in the study of race and racism. As a North Star Fellow, Miguel will focus on setting the foundation for his next two major projects, one of which has recently received a Russell Sage Foundation Pipeline Grant. Melissa Colón is an assistant professor in the Urban Education, Leadership, and Policy Studies program at the University of Massachusetts Boston. Her research focuses on the educational lives of Black and Latine youth, and what their schooling experiences can teach us about how race and gender, in the shape of ideologies, policies, and programs are animated in schools. Before becoming a Professor, Dr. Colón worked as a public school teacher, community organizer, policy analyst, and as the Executive Director of Iniciativa: The Massachusetts Educational Initiative for Latino Students. Melissa holds a Bachelor’s in Secondary Education and History from Boston College, a Master’s in Urban and Environmental Policy and Planning, and a Doctorate in Child Studies and Human Development, both from Tufts University. As part of her fellowship with the North Star Collective (2024), her current writing projects examine how Black and Latine students experience, resist, and reimagine disaster schooling. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms