Math Placement - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Science & Mathematics Student Success Center Math Placement Menu menu Menu Academic Departments Research Student Success Center Math Placement Academic Support Degree Planning Meet With Your Advisor Faculty Resources First Year STEM Communities Pre Med Career & Research Opportunities Purposeful Pathways Student Resources Faculty & Staff Alumni Dean's Office Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy Math Placement SEAS: General Math Placement Website & Math Department: Student Resources Who needs to take the ALEKS Math Placement Exam? All new first year students are asked to take the ALEKS Math Placement Exam to determine their starting point in math. Any continuing or transfer student wishing to take Calculus or a course on the Calculus track (ex: College Algebra, Pre-Calculus) must demonstrate readiness for the course. If you have not already taken the ALEKS Placement Exam, you may do so on your own at any time, but it should be completed by the time you attend your New Student Orientation session. The goal of ALEKS is to provide an accurate reflection of your preparation and aptitude so that you can select the right math course to meet your educational needs. Some considerations: Important: Learn why taking ALEKS on your own, and without any outside help is the fastest path to math success. Hold yourself to high ethical standards, and adhere to the University's academic integrity expectations when taking the ALEKS assessment. Any breach of the University's academic integrity expectations is a violation of the University's Code of Conduct, and will likely result in a compromised educational experience that may lead to poor grades or a delayed graduation. Read more about academic integrity. Identify which math course(s) are required for your selected academic program. Think about your past math experiences, and assess your aptitude and preparation. Consider the course sequence that will best lead you to success. Value the benefit of building foundational knowledge and pursue your math development in a sound educational manner. Not ready for your required math course? That's okay! Consider taking one of the pre-requisite courses. (e.g., Instead of starting with Calculus I, you may want to first build up your skills in College Algebra or Pre-Calculus.) Each math class in a sequence builds on the on the one before it. Your instructor will not be able to teach content that should have been mastered before you came to the class. Consult with your faculty or professional advisor to select a starting course that is both aligned with your ALEKS math placement result, and will also provide optimal foundational knowledge. Math proficiency is expected in most introductory and advanced STEM courses. Ensure that your testing environment minimizes distractions and that you have two hours of uninterrupted time. To access the ALEKS Math Assessment: Log into WISER →My Academics→Placement Testing→ALEKS Math Place, Prep, Learn. Make sure the pop-up blocker on your internet browser is disabled or the link will not open. If you have any trouble accessing ALEKS through WISER, contact uac.testing@umb.edu Additional notes: Understand your Quantitative Reasoning Requirement BA: Math 114Q, Math 115, Math 125 (or substitute statistics).  Visit the ACES Testing Center website to learn about QR waivers for BA students. BS: Math 135, 140, or 145 depending upon major requirements Visit the Math Placement website for information, including how to access it. STEM students are highly encouraged to begin on the Calculus track (Math 115 -> Math 130 -> Math 140) Math 114QR is typically not taken by students pursuing a Bachelor of Science because it is not part of the calculus track. Students who wish to attempt the placement test for a second time will need to spend at least three (3) hours in the ALEKS learning module before retaking the assessment. Five (5) hours of time in the ALEKS learning module will be required for a third attempt. ALEKS scores are valid for three semesters in which both summer sessions count as one semester.  Visit the the Math Department webpage to view their helpful Student Aids including: the ALEKS Expiration Grid, Pre-requisite Guide, & Course Learning Outcomes. Some transfer courses do not count as exact UMass Boston equivalents. See the Math Transfer Electives for a listing of these courses.  Work closely with an academic advisor to understand how your transfer courses count towards your degree requirements and to select the next appropriate course in sequence. If you have any questions about Math Placement, please contact the Student Success Center. Related Links UTeach Boston Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms