Pricing and iLab Solutions - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Genomicscore Pricing and iLab Solutions Menu menu Menu People Services & Equipment Pricing and iLab Solutions Pricing and iLab Solutions For current pricing, please create an iLabs Account. It's easy! You just need your institutional email and create a password. There is no marketing or private information associated with your iLabs account.

Please follow the steps below. Create an iLabs Account Log Into iLabs The Genomics Core at the University of Massachusetts Boston uses an online system to streamline the process of requesting and billing for core services.  After you create an iLab account, the system will enable you to view pricing, place service requests, provide required approvals, enter your fund or PO number, complete and print submission forms to accompany your samples and track whether your submission has been received, started or completed. If you experience any problems using iLab, click the 'leave iLab feedback' link in the upper right hand corner once you are logged in.  Alternatively, send an email to support@ilabsolutions.com or call 617-297-2805. If you are a new Principal Investigator , see below for instructions . If you already have an iLab account: Please click the ' Log Into iLab ' button top of page. For those who have an existing iLab account but need a password . New Users:  To register for an iLab account: Click the ' Create an iLab Account ' button above. Complete the registration form on the sign-up page.  Use your institutional email . Receive a Welcome Email from iLab (typically within one business day) with login credentials. To Create a Service Request: Obtain your Fund or PO number to be entered with your request. Login Here Enter the credentials received in your welcome email from iLab. Select the Request Services tab and click on the Request Service button next to the service of interest. You will be asked to complete a form. Your request will be pending review by the core.  The core will review and/or add charges and submit it back to you for approval.  Make sure to watch for an email from iLab regarding your updated project and be sure to provide payment information for your request before agreeing to the quote. To Create an Equipment Reservation for the QuantStudio™ or Computer Workstation: Obtain your fund or PO number to be entered with your request. Login Here Enter the credentials received in your welcome email from iLab. Select the Schedule Equipment tab and click on the View Schedule button next to the instrument of interest.  Click and drag on the time frame you would like to schedule your reservation for. A window will pop up that will allow you to verify your reservations details and provide payment information before saving the reservation. Your reservation may need to be approved by the core.  You can confirm this by viewing your homepage (click the “Home” button in the upper left corner of the iLab window). For any questions not addressed in the manual, click on the “leave iLab feedback” link in the upper right hand corner or contact support@ilabsolutions.com . For Principal Investigators: Each of your lab members will have to request permission to be a part of your lab before they are able to place orders.  You will receive notification when someone is requesting permission.  The request email will have specific instructions on how to approve the request.  In case you are interested in the process, we have pasted instructions below. If you would prefer to delegate these notifications/approvals to a financial manager, please email support@ilabsolutions.com with your financial manager’s name & email. Instructions: iLabSolutions Service Center Assistance You will use your User id and password to log into iLab. Once logged in, look for the link in the left hand menu that says 'my labs'. Hover-over and select your lab. Set the auto-approval amount if you do not wish to approve service requests below a certain dollar amount.  To do this, select the 'Members' panel and enter a dollar amount in the 'Auto Pre-Approval' amount and click 'save settings.’ To approve lab membership requests, select the ‘Membership Requests & Fund Numbers’ tab. New membership requests will show at the top of this page.  Click “Approve” to accept a member into your lab. Click “Reject” if they are not a member of your lab. To assign a Fund Number to a member of your lab, find the member in the above list where it says, ‘Manage Fund Numbers’ Select the checkbox(es) to the right of their name for the Fund Number(s) you wish to assign them. Additional help For any questions not addressed in the manual, click on the “leave iLab feedback” link in the upper right hand corner of the iLab page or contact support@ilabsolutions.com . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms