- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Physicist Receives NSF Grant to Use Quantum Mechan Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Research Science & Mathematics Physicist Receives NSF Grant to Use Quantum Mechanics to Study Number Theory 06/14/2023 |
    Sandra Mason Department of Physics Professor Maxim Olchanyi has been awarded a $212,358 three-year grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for a project entitled Number-Theory-Inspired Effects in Cold Atoms. The study is one of only a few attempts in the world to use quantum mechanics to study number theory. Number theory is a branch of mathematics that looks at the relationships and properties of integer numbers. It is a theoretical foundation of cryptography, including the ubiquitous RSA encryption algorithm. The primary goal of Olchanyi’s project is to build a quantum machine that will provide new tests of the validity of the Goldbach Conjecture, a well-known, but yet-to-be-solved problem in number theory. The Goldbach Conjecture states that for any even number, the sum of at least one pair of prime numbers equals that even number (e.g., 12=7+5, 40=3+37, etc.). Although the correctness of the conjecture has been confirmed for relatively small numbers (less than approximately 4. x 10 18 ), Olchanyi’s research is exploring ways quantum mechanics can push this limit even further. Olchanyi’s group at UMass Boston will run the project in close collaboration with Oleksandr Marchukov of Technische Universität Darmstadt in Germany, and Donatella Cassettari’s experimental group at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. Explaining the methods that will be used for the study, Olchanyi said, “At this early stage, we are not planning to employ the massive parallelism offered by quantum mechanics. As far as the quantum properties are concerned, we will only use the fact that in the quantum world, the energy of a particle assumes discrete values. These discrete values will be associated with prime numbers.” Olchanyi continued, “An additional laser light will induce arithmetic progressions among sums of these numbers, one atom per term. A trap for atoms whose energy spectrum is proportional to prime numbers exists already. Cassettari’s group, one of our collaborators, created it a year ago, and we will continue to build on this work.” The NSF funding will be used for salaries for the UMass Boston graduate students working on the project. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms