U-Access - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students U-Access Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Community Resources Financial Literacy Program Food Pantry Give Justice Bridge Referral Form U Access Ambassador Program Uaccess Class Collaborations U Access Student Leaders Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures Urban & Off-Campus Support Services (U-ACCESS) List of local, state, and federal resources . Client Intake to U-ACCESS Monday - Friday  9 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Campus Center Suite 2401 SNAP Assistance  Mondays 9:30 a.m. - 11:30 a.m.  and Tuesdays  2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Campus Center Suite 2401 Local, State, & Federal Resources Resources4U The Office of the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs has seen the various non-academic challenges our students encounter on a daily basis, which has led to the establishment of the Office of Urban and Off-Campus Support Services, otherwise known as U-ACCESS. U-ACCESS envisions a campus where students are empowered to effectively engage in the fight against the systems of poverty, pursue economic security, and successfully achieve their academic goals at UMass Boston. The mission of U-ACCESS is to help UMass Boston students meet their basic needs so they can achieve academic success. This office provides leadership development and inspires student agency in mitigating systemic poverty. Along with various services to fulfill student needs, the office provides students with work and internship opportunities to empower them to fight campus poverty and support their peers. In order to qualify for U-ACCESS services, you must be a UMass Boston student taking at least one credit. To begin receiving services, please fill out a U-ACCESS referral form . This form will help us determine any and all resources that are available to you. Please note: the University uses this form for a number of different student concerns. As it pertains to U-ACCESS, the most important information needed is a clear description of what concerns you have and the best ways to contact you. *Please note that you do NOT need to fill out the intake form to receive tax preparation services, legal consultations, or financial counseling. Please send an email to U-ACCESS to make an appointment. U-ACCESS offers students: Case Management Regular Food Pantry access Meal and snack programs Meal swipe program Free on-campus locker rental Connection to Legal Consultations SNAP application assistance (i.e. food stamps) Financial Counseling and Financial Literacy Workshops Emergency toiletries and school supplies Information and Resource Referral There are many ways to get involved with U-ACCESS in the fight against campus poverty. For students: Refer yourself or a friend Become a U-ACCESS Ambassador Take a social justice class at UMass Boston Host a drive Donate in-demand items Donate a Guest Meal Swipe For faculty and staff: Refer a student Add the basic needs blurb to your syllabus Partner with U-ACCESS for internship opportunities Host a drive Donate in-demand items Giving to UMass Boston Support UMass Boston students who suffer financial and personal hardship, including poverty and homelessness through a gift to the U-ACCESS Program. Give Now Dashboard UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms