Turnitin - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Learning Design Tools Turnitin Menu menu Menu About Accessibility Active Learning Artificial Intelligence (AI) Guidance Beaconflex Blackboard Canvas Course Readiness Microcredentials Mobile Learning Open Education Return To Campus Teach Teach Online Teaching Remotely Tech Support Tools Echo360 Exam Security And Proctoring Google Workspace Gradescope Iclicker Linkedinlearning Pronto Respondus Turnitin Voicethread Web Conferencing Wordpress What is Turnitin? Turnitin is a plagiarism prevention tool. Turnitin uses a special algorithm to compare text-based student submissions to the Turnitin database and other online sources. The Turnitin database includes periodicals, journal articles, and previously submitted student papers, as well as indexed web content. How does Turnitin work? Turnitin produces a detailed similarity report that can be customized and viewed by instructors and students if desired. Additionally, instructors have the ability to record voice comments in Feedback Studio for ease of grading. Students can also use Turnitin to check their own work with the Turnitin Draft Coach add-on in Google Workspace. Note that Turnitin does not automatically confirm cases of plagiarism. Ultimately, interpretation of similarity reports is up to the discretion of the instructor. The tool is best implemented as one of many efforts to educate students about plagiarism and to help improve student writing. Turnitin and Privacy Turnitin does not share any personally identifiable student information (name, email address, score, school) and only archives student papers for textual comparison purposes. Turnitin is a secure service which "maintains extremely high levels of privacy and security through the use of SSL encryption, redundant servers, sophisticated firewalls, multiple data centers, and privacy and security audits." "Turnitin complies with FERPA, COPPA, the Safe Harbor privacy and security standards." Read more about Turnitin's privacy policy . Instructor Resources Turnitin is integrated with Blackboard. To use Turnitin, instructors must use the Turnitin Feedback Studio option located under the Build Content menu. Visit these additional instructions for using Turnitin within Blackboard . Choose resources for Blackboard Original View when presented with the option. Interpreting the Turnitin Similarity Report helps you utilize the similarity reports most effectively. Turnitin Feedback Studio VidBITs Turnitin's pedagogy and product experts have partnered to create short videos that feature best practices for educational settings. These quick clips highlight essential features, effective shortcuts, and helpful feedback tools to extend your reach in the classroom. Turnitin Feedback Studio VidBITS Student Resources The following resources can be shared with your students. Turnitin Resources Blackboard Direct Student provides detailed instructions for using Turnitin within Blackboard. Student Guide to Turnitin Draft Coach in Google Workspace : Turnitin Draft Coach enables the student to use Turnitin independently of their instructor (or even course) to validate the originality of work submitted as Google Docs (including Word documents uploaded to the UMass Boston installation of Google Workspace). Writing Resources The Graduate Writing Center offers tutoring and other resources for graduate students. The following LinkedIn Learning Videos help students with research paper formatting and academic integrity: MLA Research Paper Basics : Learn the basics of formatting a research paper in MLA Style. APA Research Basics: Learn the basics of formatting a research paper in APA Style. Avoiding Plagiarism : Demonstrates paraphrasing vs. quoting resources. Getting Help with Turnitin Turnitin FAQ Faculty may direct questions about Turnitin to Learning Design Services at learningdesign@umb.edu . Other Resources Plagiarism Spectrum 2.0 Authentic learning: What is it, Why it's important How to Turn a Check for Plagiarism Into a Teachable Moment Feedback That Leads to Improvement in Student Essays UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms