Institute Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Institute for New England Native American Studies Institute Staff Menu menu Menu Institute Staff Overview Publications Presentations Resources Our Staff Director: J. Cedric Woods, PhD Cedric Woods is a citizen of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina. He combines over a decade of tribal government experience with a research background, and has served as the director of INENAS since 2009. The institute's purpose is to connect Native New England with university research, innovation, and education. Currently, Cedric is working on projects with tribes in the areas of tribal government capacity building, Indian education, economic development, and chronic disease prevention. Prior to arriving at UMass Boston, Cedric completed a study on the evolution of tribal government among the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe and the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation. While pursuing his doctoral studies at the University of Connecticut, he served in a variety of capacities for the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation. These positions included director of career development, research analyst, tribal government spokesman, and deputy chief operating officer. Cedric has served as a consultant for the National Museum of the American Indian, the Haliwa Saponi Indian Tribe of North Carolina, and the Mashantucket Pequot Museum and Research Center. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of Plimoth Plantation, a bicultural living history museum in Plymouth, Massachusetts. Email: Cedric.Woods@umb.edu Phone: 617-287-5784 Program Manager: Jaime Morrison Hometown : Medford, MA Email : Jamie.Morrison@umb.edu Rachel Winters (She/Hers) Hometown : Edmond Oklahoma Role : Research Assistant Affiliations : Citizen, Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma Research Interest/Focus: Rachel is a doctoral candidate in the higher education program at UMass Boston. Her research interests include equity, justice, and access for Native & Indigenous students in higher education, institutions of higher education 'indigenizing' and/or 'decolonizing', and tribal-university relations. Additionally, she focuses on community engagement and student leadership development. Brittney Walley Hometown : Medway, MA Role : Graduate Assistant Affiliations : Nipmuc Tribe, Critical Ethnic & Community Studies Research Interest / Focus : Nipmuc Tribal Community, capacity, and continuity Dawn Anderson Hometown : Harvey, IL Role : Research Assistant Affiliations : School for Global Inclusion & Social Development Research Interest / Focus : I am researching the impact and implications of using local history to strengthen teacher community and cultural responsiveness in K-12 classrooms. Research areas include: Community History, Culturally Sustaining and Revitalizing Pedagogies, Teacher Education, Critical Multi-cultural Education, Experiential Education, Community Engagement Shymaa Bedaiwy Hometown : Cairo, Egypt Role : Research Assistant Affiliations : School for Global Inclusion & Social Development, Umass Boston Research Interest/Focus : Financial Inclusion and Women Economic Empowerment Sonie Johnson , MSW Hometown : Sonie is from the Island of Jamaica and now lives in Maine. Role : Research Assistant Affiliations : School for Global Inclusion and Social Development (SGISD) Research Interest & Focus: Housing, homelessness, education, and health and wellness for individuals experiencing domestic violence, especially women living in shelters. Rita Ortiz - Zayas (she/her/hers) Hometown : Hudson, MA Role : Graduate Assistant Affiliations : Critical Ethnic and Community Studies (CECS) Master's Program at UMB Research Interest/Focus : Within my time at the master's program, I have been able to research the history and role of certain Puerto Rican cultural foods in our diet and within the growing food sovereignty movement on the island. Viandas in particular have become a food group that I've come to cherish even more due to this research, as they represent the resiliency of Puerto Ricans. However, food sovereignty is something I feel passionate about no matter which community is the focus of it. Right now, I'm working with two UMB professors, Dr. Cedric Woods and Dr. Michael Tlusty, in order to understand the needs of New England/local tribes in their fight for food security and/or sovereignty. Nicholas H . Johnson Hometown : Philadelphia, PA Role : Research Assistant Affiliations : School for Global Inclusion & Social Development , William Monroe Trotter Institute for the Study of Black Culture Research Interest/Focus : Indigenous & African Diaspora Political Ecologies, Climate Reparations, International Relations, Restorative Justice, Participatory Action Research Connect Follow us on Facebook Read our blog Contact Us Cedric Woods, Director Cedric.Woods@umb.edu 617.287.5784 Bayside, 4th Floor 150 Mt. Vernon St. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5784 This institute is part of the College of Education and Human Development. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms