Success Communities - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Student Equity, Access & Success Home Academics Student Equity, Access & Success Success Communities Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Pre-collegiate Programs Success Communities Student Support Services (SSS) Academic & Career Engagement & Success Asian American Resources Center for Academic Excellence Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Ross Center for Disability Services Success Boston Undergraduate Studies Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Provost's Office Success Communities Success, or learning communities, are small, supportive groups of first-year students, within the larger university setting, who share similar academic interests and goals for college. Joining a learning community in the College of Science and Mathematics, College of Liberal Arts or College of Management is optional, but highly recommended, as it is a great way to transition to college life. How can you benefit? You receive one-on-one advising with program staff. You are enrolled into classes designed to help you start on track in your college. You have the opportunity to meet other students in your college right away. You enjoy co-curricular programming inside and outside the classroom. College of Science and Mathematics Freshman Success Communities Start on track and stay on track in the College of Science and Mathematics. The Freshman Success Community program is designed for full-time freshmen ready to take a full set of introductory science courses. As an FSC member, you will be able to Enroll in the same two or three core courses, grouped by academic discipline Receive priority enrollment in major courses Connect with university resources to find research and career-enrichment opportunities College of Liberal Arts CLA First! For all incoming students enrolled in any CLA major or still undecided, CLA First! cohort groups make a large university feel a bit more like home. The courses fulfill general education and/or major requirements and give you the opportunity to mingle with other students in the program. Start Smart!, a series of academic and social workshops, helps you build strong connections to university resources, your classmates, and your academic advisor, making it easier for you to stay on track for a successful UMass Boston experience. College of Management Management LEAD Management LEAD is a four-semester program in which all the courses you take fulfill requirements for the management degree and enable you to graduate from the College of Management in four years. The Management LEAD community gives you the opportunity to develop close friendships with peers and connect quickly with the college through co-curricular programming from Peer LEADers. The College of Management learning community is open to any incoming student in CM who has fewer than 30 transfer credits. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms