Become A Mentor - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Uteach Become A Mentor Menu menu Menu About Alumni Become A Mentor Contact Faculty Staff Mentor Teachers Current Mentor Teachers Want to Host Student Teachers? UTeach Boston is always looking for mentor teachers to connect with UTeach students.  Fieldwork is embedded in many of the UTeach classes—from the first introductory class to student teaching.  This means that right from the beginning mentors are serving as role models for UTeach students.  As mentors, you provide UTeach students an opportunity to teach in a real classroom and give them feedback on their teaching.  This is a valuable experience for prospective teachers.  The amount of times UTeach students visit your class will vary based on what course the UTeach students are in. To be a mentor, you must Teach students in grades 3-12 Have at least two years of experience teaching in your current grade level Teach at a public school close to either UMass Boston's main campus or a subway line Be willing to have teams of students come in up to ten times a school year to teach a math or science lesson that may be unrelated to what you're currently teaching, but fits a standard for your grade Provide written feedback to the teams Teachers who mentor students will receive a stipend for hosting students and providing feedback for the students' lessons.  If interested, please contact Master Teachers Karen Crounse or Wan Sin Lim . MEET A MENTOR TEACHER Ellen Latham John D. O'Bryant School of Math and Science 8th Grade Math I am an 8th grade Algebra 1 teacher at the John D. O’Bryant School of Mathematics & Science in Roxbury.  I started teaching in 2002 and earned my National Board Teaching Certification in Early Adolescence Mathematics in 2011.  I have always taught at the middle school level and love the passion and enthusiasm that middle school students bring to the classroom. The influence that a teacher can have on a child’s confidence and career path is enormous, and this is why I teach.  I love when students develop not just mastery of mathematics but also confidence in their ability to think critically.  And, I live for those moments when I see a student “get it” thanks to the teaching strategies that I spend so much time developing. Teaching is more work than I ever imagined it would be.  This is important work that shapes our students’ futures.  New teachers should remember that their students deserve the very best from them every day.  New teachers should not be afraid to speak up and ask for help.  They should learn from distinguished teachers around them.  Observing and asking questions will help new teachers develop good habits of organization and planning that they can then refine over time. Current Mentors Thank you for providing a valuable experience to prospective STEM teachers!  Below is a list of documents you may need for mentoring. UMass Boston W9 Form Step 1 Mentor Feedback Form Step 2 Mentor Feedback Form Project-Based Instruction Mentor Feedback Form Partner Schools Blackstone Innovation School Boston Adult Technical Academy Boston Latin School Boston Teacher's Union School Burke High School Clap Innovation School Dever Elementary School Eliot Innovation School Excel High School Guild Elementary School Henderson Inclusion School Kennedy Elementary School Lee Elementary School McCormack Middle School O'Bryant School of Math & Science Quincy Elementary School Randolph High School Russell Elementary School Tynan Elementary School Don't see your school here?  Become a mentor to connect your school with UTeach Boston! UTeach Boston Wheatley Hall, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston , MA 02125 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms