Vatican Climate Summit - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News Vatican Climate Summit Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications Strategic Plan Strategic Priority 3 Chancellor, International Leaders Sign Planetary Protocol for Climate Change Resilience at Vatican Climate Summit 05/23/2024 |
    Office of Communications Commitment to take global and local approach to climate mitigation, adaptation and societal transformation also signed by Pope Francis at Vatican Climate Summit. Massachusetts Governor Maura Healey and UMass Boston Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco greet Pope Francis at the Vatican climate summit, “From Climate Crisis to Climate Resilience.” UMass Boston Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco has led scientists, social scientists, researchers, governors, and mayors from around the world in developing a Planetary Protocol for Climate Change Resilience . The compact, which was authored in part by Chancellor Suárez-Orozco and Massachusetts Climate Chief Melissa Hoffer, was signed by international dignitaries, including Pope Francis, at a three-day global climate summit at the Vatican May 15-17 entitled “From Climate Change to Climate Resilience.” The summit was a joint meeting of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences and the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences, co-led by Chancellor Suárez-Orozco and Professor Veerabhadran Ramanathan of the University of California at San Diego and Cornell University. Among those in attendance were Massachusetts Governor Maura Healey, Boston Mayor Michelle Wu, California Governor Gavin Newsom, New York Governor Kathy Hochul, former White House Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy, and Massachusetts Climate Chief Hoffer, who joined their international colleagues in conferring on the urgency of addressing climate change. “We no longer have the luxury of relying just on mitigation of emissions. We need to embark on building climate resilience so that people can bend the emissions curve, survive the climate crisis, and bounce forward to a safer, healthier, more equitable, and sustainable world,” Chancellor Suárez-Orozco said.” Climate resilience requires cross-disciplinary partnerships among researchers, engineers, and entrepreneurs and trans-disciplinary partnerships between science and community leaders, including faith leaders, NGOs, and the public.” "Climate change is already upon us and worsening with every passing year. We must protect people and nature to survive and thrive through the relentless crisis,” Pope Francis said. “I congratulate the two Academies for leading this effort and for producing a planetary protocol for climate change resilience. The poorest billions, who have little to do with the emission of heat-trapping pollutants, must receive utmost support and protection." “Climate change impacts the entire world, and it is essential that we work together with the urgency that this challenge demands to build resiliency in all of our communities,” said Governor Healey. “I was grateful to join the Vatican Climate Summit and learn from so many of my colleagues in government, as well as scientists, academics and faith leaders, about the policies and strategies that can be most impactful for protecting our environment and driving the transition to a clean energy economy.” “Over the course of this convening, leaders around the world highlighted the ways that each of our communities are experiencing the devastating impacts of climate change and taking action to mitigate and adapt, said Mayor Wu. “After hearing so many inspiring examples of community organizing, technological advances, and local innovation for sustainability, now is the time for collective action to amplify and multiply our progress. I’m proud for Boston to be among the original signatories of this global commitment to make each community a home for everyone and for our planet—our common home—to be healthy, connected, and prosperous for generations to come.” While at the Summit, Governor Healey announced the launch of the new Climate Careers Fund, an innovative cross-sector collaboration designed to support workforce training in climate. The Fund aims to fill climate workforce gaps, increase access to economic mobility for workers, and support a diverse clean energy workforce. “Under Governor Healey’s statewide leadership and Mayor Wu’s leadership in Boston, we are an international climate resilience model, which is why when I convened this summit under the guidance of His Holiness Pope Francis, I wanted our best practices shared with the world,” said Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco. “As chancellor of Boston’s premier public university, I am proud we will continue to be at the forefront of developing innovative solutions for addressing our climate crisis.” “We had an inspiring experience at the Vatican Climate Summit as we’ve learned from esteemed leaders from across the globe about best practices to reduce emissions and strengthen resiliency in our communities,” said Chief Hoffer. “We also shared the ways in which Massachusetts is a global leader in this work and committed to future collaboration to meet this unprecedented moment in human history. This protocol articulates science-based principals and reflects our shared commitment to rapidly bend the warming curve, accelerate adaptation, protect our communities and build a strong clean energy economy.” The Planetary Action reads in part: The need for a profound societal transformation across the global population is immediate and critical. Our aim is to enlighten and galvanize societies worldwide into prompt, unified action against climate change and for climate resilience. Our strategy is comprehensive, spanning policy shifts, education, and behavioral changes under the banner of MAST [Mitigation, Adaptation and Societal Transformation]. This is a pivotal moment that calls for unwavering commitment and immediate action. We must capture this moment and transition to a benevolent era with no one left behind. Participants also committed to follow up on the global summit by hosting state and city summits to develop locally relevant resilience plans. Governor Healey announced that she will work with Chancellor Suárez-Orozco to host a summit in Massachusetts this fall with local leaders from across the state to coordinate adaptation, transformation, and financing plans. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms