Scholarships for Continuing Students - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Scholarships for Continuing Students Menu menu Menu Apply for Financial Aid Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Outside Scholarships Scholarships for Continuing Students The Grad Last Mile Fund Scholarships for Transfers Scholarships Faq Graduate Student Financial Aid Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships Scholarships for Continuing Students Have questions about scholarships? Schedule a one-on-one appointment with us. Each year UMass Boston offers hundreds of scholarships to continuing students. The application cycle has opened for the 2024/2025 academic year. Apply today! While any current UMass Boston student is welcome to submit a scholarship application, competitive applications will typically require applicants: Have a minimum of 24 credits completed at UMass Boston Have a minimum cumulative GPA of a 3.0 Be enrolled in a degree granting program Once you have completed your scholarship application, you will be able to view scholarship opportunities that may require additional steps for consideration. Browse these opportunities by clicking recommended opportunities on your AcademicWorks home page and following the Apply Now buttons. Please note priority may be given to students who do not already have significant scholarship aid. Check back often as we update the scholarship opportunities available each semester. Awards made through this process are typically one-time awards. If selected for one of our competitive continuing student scholarship awards, the amount may range from $500 to as much as $4,000. If you have any questions about continuing student scholarships please contact us at merit.scholarships@umb.edu . GRAD Last Mile Scholarship – Rolling deadline until the funding has been exhausted The purpose of the GRAD Last Mile Fund is to aid students who have non-academic costs that are preventing them from completing their degree, and to help pay university costs, if no other university-based fund is available. The maximum award for the GRAD Last Mile Scholarship is $2,500. Eligibility Criteria: Must be an in-state undergraduate student Must be graduating in the fall 2024, spring 2025, or summer 25 semester Must have exhausted all available financial aid, including subsidized/unsubsidized loans Must have a financial roadblock that is preventing you from completing your degree (this can include but is not limited to child care, transportation, or past due balances) How to Apply: Please Apply Here This is the only scholarship application not in our AcademicWorks Scholarship System. The Comprehensive Scholarship – Deadline Friday, October 18th The Comprehensive Scholarship Application will put students in the running for many scholarships that the Merit Scholarship Office offers. Any student awarded a scholarship from this process will have the funds posted towards their student account for the current academic year as a one-time scholarship. Funding decisions are expected in early December with recipients receiving awards from $400 to $3,000 to their spring 2025 semester bill. Eligibility Criteria: Open to In-State, Out-of-State, and International Students Must be a degree seeking undergraduate student Enrolled at least half-time (6 credits) for the fall 2024 semester Have completed a minimum of 24 credits at UMass Boston Must have a cumulative GPA of 3.3 or higher How to Apply: Sign into the scholarship portal and complete a general scholarship application by the deadline. Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences Conditional Scholarships – Deadline Friday, November 1st The MCNHS Scholarships are determined each semester for students who meet the eligibility criteria below. A number of awards will be made from different scholarship awards through this application. Eligibility Criteria: Be a current degree seeking undergraduate or graduate student in the Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences Must be in good academic standing How to Apply: MCNHS students who complete a general scholarship application will then be prompted to answer the MCNHS specific questions below: Are you a single, working parent? Are you a graduate of Arlington High School or Arlington Catholic School? If applicable, please summarize your work with developmentally-delayed or mentally-impaired individuals, and /or research you have done related to developmentally delayed adults or children. (maximum 250 word count) Please describe any work experiences you have in elder care or comment if you have a specific interest in working with the elderly. (maximum 250 word count) Have you worked in a hospital or healthcare facility in the City of Boston for 10 years or longer? Please list all relevant employments, including dates and organizations. Please list your Nursing Credentials. Have you lived or studied in Guyana, the Caribbean or Africa? If "Yes" please elaborate. The Chemistry Conditional Scholarships - Deadline Friday, November 15th This opportunity is made up from a number of scholarships geared towards chemistry and biochemistry majors. The scholarships include: The Edward Shapiro Scholarship, The Berkeley Cue Scholarship, and The Ethel and Herman Rosansky Scholarship. Eligibility Criteria: Be a current degree seeking undergraduate student Be a chemistry or biochemistry major Must be in good academic standing Must be doing undergraduate research with a member of the Chemistry Faculty How to Apply: Chemistry students who complete a general scholarship application will then be prompted to answer the Chemistry Conditional Scholarship specific questions below: Please provide a letter of recommendation from your research advisor, a UMass Boston Chemistry or Biochemistry faculty member. The Krystle Campbell Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, October 18th UMass Boston mourns the tragic loss of Krystle Campbell who was killed senselessly in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. The university honored Krystle’s memory through its award of a posthumous degree to the former student in 2013 and the establishment of a scholarship in her name. The Krystle Campbell Scholarship will support scholarships that advance students, like Krystle Campbell, interested in pursuing careers in business. Eligibility Criteria: Be a full-time, degree seeking undergraduate student in the College of Management Must have a 3.0 or higher cumulative GPA Must have a FAFSA on file for the current academic year with unmet financial need. How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above, please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Please submit a short answer that reflects what receiving the Krystle Campbell Scholarship - created in memory of UMass Boston alumna and a 2013 victim of the Boston Marathon bombing - would mean to you. Selected Krystle Campbell Scholarship recipients will be asked to attend a luncheon on a Saturday in April and give a short speech about what receiving the scholarship means to them and how it will help them. Would you be comfortable with this? The Mary Thistle '83 and Family Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, October 18th The purpose of this fund is to provide scholarships for undergraduate and graduate students within the College of Management. Eligibility Criteria: Be a degree seeking student in the College of Management Must be in good academic standing How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above, please submit a general scholarship application by the application deadline to be considered. The Sam Wilson Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, October 18th To be awarded as a direct grant to a student in the Educational Opportunities Program (or its successor programs) who has already completed three courses at UMass Boston. Awards of up to $2,500 will be made from this opportunity. Eligibility Criteria: Be a degree seeking undergraduate student in the College of Management Must have a 2.75 or higher cumulative GPA Must have a FAFSA on file for the current academic year with unmet financial need. How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above, please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below. Please submit an essay of approximately 750 words which discusses how the following ideals valued by Sam Wilson are reflected in your own life: Dedication to work, a sense of excellence, and enthusiasm for life. The Arthur and Tiffany Brown Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, October 18th The purpose of the Fund will be to provide financial support to a student enrolled in the College of Management. Preference will be given to a student from Hyde Park who attended a public high school. If there are no eligible students from Hyde Park, it will be awarded to a student who attended a public high school in Suffolk County. Awards of up to $1,000 will be made from this fund. Eligibility Criteria: Be a degree seeking undergraduate student in the College of Management Must have a 3.25 or higher cumulative GPA Must be a graduate of a Boston High School Must have completed a minimum of 30 credits at UMass Boston Must have a FAFSA on file for the current academic year with unmet financial need. How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application by the application deadline to be considered. The Anderson Family Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, October 18th This endowed fund provides an undergraduate scholarship which will be applied against tuition for one or two management students per year. The scholarship will be acknowledged at the College of Management Convocation in the Spring Semester. Recipient must hold an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher and must have a minimum GPA of 3.5 in Finance or Accounting concentration with at least two concentration courses completed. Eligibility Criteria: Be a degree seeking undergraduate student in the College of Management Must have a 3.0 or higher cumulative GPA Must be a graduate of a Boston High School Preference for students who have a minimum GPA of 3.5 in Finance or Accounting concentration with at least two concentration courses complete How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application by the application deadline to be considered. The Dr. Jebediah Gaffney Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, October 25th The purpose of the Fund will be to award an annual Dr. Jebediah Gaffney Scholarship to a full-time undergraduate student with 30 credits or more who is pursuing a degree in Psychology. Preference will be given for students pursuing careers in addiction or substance abuse counseling. A committee formed by the Psychology Department will select the annual recipient. Eligibility Criteria: Be a full-time, degree seeking undergraduate student Must be a Psychology major Must be an In-State student Must have a 3.0 or higher cumulative GPA Must have completed a minimum of 30 credits at UMass Boston Must have a FAFSA on file for the current academic year with unmet financial need How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Please explain why you are a psychology major and your career aspirations upon graduation. The Rev. Dr. J. Theodore Klein Scholarship – Deadline: Thursday, October 31st The purpose of the Rev. Dr. J. Theodore Klein Scholarship is to aid students studying Philosophy and Ethical Philosophy. The Philosophy Department is honored to host this legacy, which memorializes Professor Klein’s scholarship on the ethics of care, service to his community, and dedication as an educator. Eligibility Criteria: Must be a undergraduate philosophy major Must have at least 24 credits completed at UMass Boston Must have a letter of recommendation from a UMB philosophy faculty member (listed under the optional letter of recommendation of the application) How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application by the application deadline to be considered. The Immigrant Achievers Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, November 1st Tam Tran and Cinthya Felix were nationally recognized immigrant graduate student leaders from Brown and Columbia Universities. They worked tirelessly on behalf of the DREAM Act movement, but their lives were tragically cut short in a car accident in 2011. This scholarship has been created with that in mind, and students who are immigrants or the children of immigrants are encouraged to apply. Preference will be given to those who demonstrate a future commitment to community engagement and are in need of financial assistance but may not be eligible for federal financial aid. Eligibility Criteria: Must be an undergraduate student Must have a 3.0 or higher cumulative GPA Must have financial need, not necessarily on the FAFSA Preference for students who immigrated to the U.S. as a minor or who has a parent or guardian who immigrated How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions: Did you Immigrate to the U.S. as a minor or do you have at least one parent or guardian who is an immigrant? Describe how your personal or family immigrant history and financial hardships make you eligible for this scholarship. Explain how you feel you embody the hopes, aspirations, and passion of Tam Tran and Cinthya Felix through a) your past and/or current community service that benefits low-income immigrant communities; b) your future plans or goals to contributing to your campus, community, or a social cause. Provide one letter of recommendation from a professor, counselor, teacher, employer, or community leader (such as a pastor, monk, elected official, etc.) who can attest to your hopes, aspirations, contributions, and commitment to benefitting low-income immigrant community/communities. Jeanne Marie Penvenne Africana Studies Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, November 18th The Jeanne Marie Penvenne Africana Studies Scholarship Fund will provide scholarship support to undergraduate Africana Studies majors who have financial need, regardless of their immigration status. Preference will be given to students who face social, and economic challenges that threaten their access to higher education and/or are members of the first generation in their family to attend college. Eligibility Criteria: Must be an undergraduate, Africana Studies major Must have financial need Preference for students who are the first generation in their family to attend college How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application by the application deadline to be considered. The David G. Terkla Memorial Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, November 18th To provide scholarship support to students in their junior or senior year studying Economics and/or Environmental Sciences with financial need, regardless of their immigration status. It is the intention of the Donors that the scholarship will benefit students who face social and economic challenges that threaten their access to higher education, come from traditionally under-resourced communities, and/or are the first generation in their family to attend college. Eligibility Criteria: Must be an undergraduate student Environmental Science or Economics major Must have financial need Must have completed a minimum of 60 credits at the time of application Preference for students who are the first generation in their family to attend college How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application by the application deadline to be considered. T. Scott Miyakawa Scholarship – Deadline: Monday, November 18th The purpose of the Fund is to provide financial support to a full-time undergraduate student(s) enrolled in the College of Liberal Arts majoring in Sociology. The Vice Chancellor for Enrollment Management in consultation with the Chair of the Sociology Department will administer the awarding of the Fund. Eligibility Criteria: Must be a full-time, undergraduate student Must be a Sociology, or a Psychology/Sociology (BA or BS) major Must have earned a minimum of 30 credits at UMass Boston How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application by the deadline. The Susan Cunningham Campbell Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, December 6th The Susan Cunningham Campbell Endowed Scholarship is a bequest to both the Boston and Amherst campuses of the University of Massachusetts. The endowment was set up in 2003 by the estate of Susan Cunningham Campbell, who had expressed wishes prior to her death to support music at the University of Massachusetts in perpetuity. Eligibility Criteria: Be a degree seeking Music or Music Education major Must have a cumulative GPA of a 3.0 or higher How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Are you a declared freshman music major (0-29 credits), non-freshman music major (30+ credits), or music education major? What is your major instrument? Please provide a brief essay (up to 400 words) addressing one of the following: What does it mean to be a music major at UMass Boston? Why is music education important to society? What is “musical excellence?” Please provide a letter of recommendation from a current UMB music faculty. Please provide an Audition (.mp4) [Departmental juries may be used for this purpose]. Rusty Simonds Award – Deadline: Friday, February 21st, 2025 This scholarship is named for Arthur P. (Rusty) Simonds, an expert in political theory and member of the Political Science Department at UMB for over thirty years. Rusty was an inspiration and a beloved figure to many in the UMB community. Named in his honor, this award is given to an outstanding UMB junior or senior who demonstrates an interest in political theory and who intends to pursue an advanced degree. Eligibility Criteria: Must be a full-time degree seeking undergraduate student Must have a 3.5 or higher cumulative GPA Have completed a minimum of 60 credits at UMass Boston How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Please upload your current resume. Please address why you are interested in political theory, or explain who your favorite political theorist is and why (500-600 word essay). Roger Feinstein Memorial Scholarship for First Generation Students – Deadline: Friday, February 21st, 2025 Provided by a 1992 alumnus of the University of Massachusetts Boston, The Roger Feinstein Memorial Scholarship for First Generation Students is named for a beloved member of the Political Science faculty. It is intended to provide tuition and fees support for the Fall 2023 semester to students who are the first in their family to attend college. Himself a first-generation college graduate, this scholarship is made possible by a generous alumnus of UMass Boston’s Political Science Department. He continues to support first generation students who intend to contribute to society and their communities by working on important social issues. This award is for the upcoming 2024/2025 academic year. Eligibility Criteria: Must be a first generation college student Must be a U.S Citizen or Permanent Resident Must have a 3.0 or higher cumulative GPA Must have earned a minimum of 90 college credits How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Please provide a short answer (500 words or less) describing some challenges you have overcome, your academic interests, and how your intended career path will improve US society in some way. Jalal Alamgir Memorial Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, February 21st, 2025 The Political Science Department is pleased to announce the Jalal Alamgir Scholarship to be awarded to an outstanding junior-level student in Political Science, International Relations or any other major in the university, who has demonstrated serious interest in and/or intention to pursue further study in the areas of democracy, development, and social justice. Focus on areas of Global South is preferable but not a requirement. These issues were near and dear to the heart of UMass Boston Professor Jalal Alamgir, for whom this scholarship is named in memory. Eligibility Criteria: Must be have a demonstrated interest in and/or intention to pursue further study in the areas of democracy, development, and social justice Must be a full-time undergraduate student Must be a junior-level student Must have a 3.4 or higher cumulative GPA How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Please explain your current or future interest in studying democracy, development and social justice. (600-800 word essay) Please upload your current resume Elizabeth Bussiere Scholarship - Deadline: Friday, February 21st, 2025 This scholarship is named for Elizabeth Bussiere, a political science professor at UMass Boston, for her dedication and commitment to UMB students. It is awarded to political science majors on the basis of their outstanding academic performance and their interest in public policy, law, social justice and community service, broadly defined and related to U.S., comparative, or international politics. Eligibility Criteria: Must be a Political Science or International Relations major Must be a full-time undergraduate student Must have earned a minimum of 12 credits at UMass Boston How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Please upload your current resume Please describe a political issue that you feel passionately about and the value you see in using a Political Science approach in order to understand it. (600-800 word essay) Barron Internship Award: Deadline: Friday, February 21st, 2025 The purpose of the Fund is to provide two undergraduate students per year with financial resources that allow them to participate in Congressional internships in Washington D.C. Recipients will be known as Barron Interns. This award is for the 2025/2026 academic year. Eligibility Criteria: Are you planning on participating in a Congressional Internship in Washington D.C. in the upcoming 2025/2026 academic year How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Are you planning to participate in a Congressional Internship in Washington D.C. this coming academic year? If Yes please share any details about your planned internship. David C. Knapp Political Science Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, February 21st, 2025 This scholarship is named for David C. Knapp, a former Political Scientist and President of the University of Massachusetts who wished to promote the study of politics and public affairs. It is awarded to a student primarily on the basis of outstanding academic performance, but also considers additional factors such as public and community service, career goals, and personal background. This award will provide two awards of up to $2,500. Eligibility Criteria: Must have completed at least 3 UMass Boston Political Science classes Must be a full-time undergraduate student Must have earned a minimum of 30 credits at UMass Boston How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Have you taken at least 3 UMB political science classes? Please address any public or community service you have undertaken, or would like to undertake, as well as explain the value you see in such service from a political science, as well as personal, point of view. (500-600 word essay) Please upload your current resume The Alumni Association Scholarship – Deadline: Friday, February 28th, 2025 This scholarship is made available to UMass Boston undergraduate students who have demonstrated a commitment to the university through campus involvement, leadership roles, etc. Recipients must have financial need. This award does not have a minimum GPA, but strong academic records or a demonstrated improvement over time are considerations. This scholarship is funded by the Alumni Association of the University of Massachusetts Boston. The recipients and final award amounts are determined by the Alumni Association Board of Directors Scholarship Committee. The Alumni Association of the University of Massachusetts Boston, Inc. is an independent, non-profit organization formed to support UMass Boston’s students and the University’s mission. Eligibility Criteria: Must be an undergraduate student in good academic standing How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application and then complete the opportunity specific questions as listed below: Would you like to share any other information about ways you participate in the campus community that were not expressed elsewhere in your application? Are you the child of a UMass Boston alumnus? If yes, please provide their full name and address, and approximate graduation date. Please provide a letter of recommendation. ABSN Fuld Scholarship – Deadline: March 21st, 2025 This Scholarship Fund is for Accelerated Nursing students in the spring semester each year who might otherwise not be eligible to apply for continuing student funding based on the timing of their degree program, this is typically students who began their studies in the fall 2024 semester. Awards of up to $1,000 will be assigned to a limited number of recipients for the spring 2025 semester. Eligibility Criteria: Be a degree seeking undergraduate student in the Accelerated Nursing Program who began in the fall 2024 semester Must be in good academic standing How to Apply: If you meet the eligibility criteria as listed above please submit a general scholarship application by the application deadline to be considered. Have questions about scholarships? Schedule a one-on-one appointment Schedule Appointment Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms