Conflict Resolution MA - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Conflict Resolution MA Home Academics Majors & Programs Conflict Resolution MA Request Info Loading... Develop essential skills to navigate and manage conflict, from the interpersonal to international. Students in UMass Boston's Conflict Resolution Master's program examine the causes and characteristics of local and global conflict, and develop skills related to peaceful problem solving and collaborative decision making. Graduates work in fields as varied as policy, health care, education, peacebuilding, human resources, law, and ministry. We are involved in court mediation, peace education, restorative justice, inter-religious dialogue, bridging the Israeli Palestinian conflict, and much more. The 36 credits required for the MA can be completed in 2 years with full-time study. Part-time study is available. Careers and Skills The conflict resolution graduate programs provide the theoretical foundations and practical skills to advance your current career trajectory or help you transition to a new one. Our alumni work in fields as diverse as business, government, education, health care, and international humanitarian work. Program Strengths Experience an intimate learning environment that fosters close relationships between faculty and students Explore conflict in interpersonal, organizational, intercultural, and international settings Collaborate with our expert faculty of scholars and practitioners committed to student success Gain hands-on experience through in-court mediation, restorative justice, and conflict resolution internships Expand your network and knowledge base with relevant program-sponsored speaker series, conferences, and events Enjoy the flexibility of evening and weekend classes Housed within the Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security and Global Governance . Attend An Info Session Start Your Application Plan Your Education How to Apply Applicants must meet general graduate admission requirements in addition to the following program-specific requirements: Writing Sample (optional) Resume/cv (required) Two letters of recommendation Official transcripts (completed Bachelor’s degree required) Statement of Purpose - Answer all 3 questions: Outline the development of your interest in conflict resolution, leading to your decision to apply to the program. (500-1,000 words). Describe one or more specific experiences you have had with conflict. What was your role? What were your rewards and frustrations? (500-1,000 words). How will you apply the skills, knowledge, and perspective acquired through the program in your current and/or future employment? (500-1,000 words Please visit the International Graduate Applicants if applicable. Deadlines & Cost Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Application Fee: The nonrefundable application fee is $75. UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Estimate Your Program Cost: Get a feel for your expected program costs using the Graduate Program Cost Calculator . Program Cost Information: For more detailed information on costs, please visit the Bursar's website . Curriculum Required Courses (9 Credits) CONRES 621 - Negotiation (M) 3 Credit(s) CONRES 623 - Introductory Theory 3 Credit(s) CONRES 635 - Research Methods in Dispute Resolution 3 Credit(s) Internship (3 to 6 Credits) CONRES 627 - Inter-Group Dialogue & Facilitation 6 Credit(s) OR CONRES 690 - Court Internship 6 Credit(s) OR CONRES 692 - Internship 3-6 Credit(s) Electives (15 to 21 Credits) Complete five to seven electives (depending on number of credits needed to meet the 36 required credits for the program) from any graduate courses in the Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security, and Global Governance. Courses from other departments and institutions may be accepted with approval of the graduate program director. Capstone (3 to 6 Credits) Complete one of the options below. Integrative Paper Option CONRES 693 - Capstone Seminar 3-6 Credit(s) Master’s Project Option Complete six credits. CONRES 693 - Capstone Seminar 3-6 Credit(s) - take for three credits CONRES 689 - Master’s Project in Conflict Resolution 3 Credit(s) Master’s Thesis Option CONRES 693 - Capstone Seminar 3-6 Credit(s) - take for three credits CONRES 699 - Master’s Thesis in Conflict Resolution 3 Credit(s) Graduation Criteria Complete 36 credits from ten to twelve courses including three required courses, one internship course, five to seven electives, and a capstone requirement. Attend 10 colloquia (4 are offered each semester). Capstone: Students must complete a master’s thesis, master’s project, or participate in an intensive integrative seminar. Statute of limitations: Five years Learning Outcomes Learning Outcomes Gain a thorough grounding in the theory of conflict and its resolution. Explore the social, psychological, political, structural, and cultural factors which give rise to conflict and shape its course. Understand the effects of different types of conflict on people and the relationships among them. Develop skills in the practice, design, and evaluation of a variety of conflict management and resolution applications relevant to a broad range of contexts and group sizes. These skills include nonviolent, collaborative resolution methods, such as mediation, facilitation, negotiation, dialogue, organizational change, and consensual decision making. Related Programs Conflict Resolution Certificate Contact Graduate Program Director Karen Ross karen.ross [at] umb.edu (617) 287-7489 Conflict Resolution Programs Department conresglobal [at] umb.edu Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Global Governance UMass Boston's Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Global Governance offers a diverse range of programs and research opportunities where you will learn to manage conflict, build security, and govern local and global organizations. Explore Department of Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Global Governance The McCormack School Learn more about the McCormack School, a nationally recognized leader in public service education dedicated to social justice and equity. Explore the McCormack School Next Steps Visit UMass Boston Start Your Application UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms