Submitting an SAP Appeal - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Financial Aid Apply for Financial Aid Maintain Your Eligibility Submitting an SAP Appeal Menu menu Menu Apply for Financial Aid Eligibility & Important Dates Understanding FAFSA Verification Award Letter Cost Of Attendance Appeals Forms Counseling Staff Summer Financial Aid Winter Financial Aid Maintain Your Eligibility SAP (Satisfactory Academic Progress) SAP Appeals Process Submitting an SAP Appeal SAP FAQs Return of Title IV Funds Disbursement of Aid Completing Requirements Online Financial Aid Planner FAFSA Changes Student Loan Repayment Undergraduate Student Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Graduate Student Financial Aid Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appeal Instructions Students must have documented extenuating personal or medical circumstances in order to appeal their SAP status. Appeal decisions are final, and you will be reviewed at the end of every term until you meet SAP standards. All documentation submitted is confidential. Deadlines to submit an appeal are listed below. Please note that students must complete a FAFSA in order to submit an SAP Appeal in WISER. Deadlines The deadlines to submit the SAP appeal are: Fall Semester - October 1 Spring Semester - April 1 Summer Semester - July 1 Appeals will not be accepted after these deadlines. Students who have experienced an extenuating circumstance are encouraged to submit their appeal as soon as possible. Personal Statement & Documentation You must have documented extenuating personal or medical circumstances in order to appeal your SAP status. See below for examples of extenuating circumstances and required documentation. All documentation submitted is confidential. The outcome of your appeal will depend on the described circumstances, the quality of the documentation you provide, and how well you have addressed your ability to progress towards degree completion within a reasonable time frame. You must write a personal statement/appeal letter that addresses the following: The reasons/circumstances why you are not meeting SAP standards. Be as specific as possible. Explain all F’s, Withdrawals, and Incompletes (provide a copy of your incomplete contract as part of your supporting documentation). How have your circumstances changed that will allow you to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress standards. Outline the specific steps you are taking to get back on track. Attach supporting documentation, if applicable Submit your personal statement and supporting documentation online by clicking on the SAP Appeal requirement in your WISER to-do list. Reason/Circumstances Examples of Supporting Documentation Student's own mental or physical illness, injury, or disability Letter from healthcare provider Dates of hospital stays Discharge paperwork Death of a family member or significant person in your life (list your relationship to the deceased) Death certificate Obituary Memorial/funeral service pamphlet Divorce/Separation of parents or student Divorce decree Separation paperwork Letter from attorney Any other official court documents Family financial hardships Letter from employer Serious illness or injury of a family member Letter from family member's healthcare provider or social worker stating the need for student to be a caregiver Legal obligations/circumstances Copy of police reports Copy of court documents Victim of assault or domestic violence Copy of police reports Copy of restraining order(s) Letter from a social worker or other professional familiar with the case Other personal circumstances Provide supporting documentation Academic Plan Check your WISER to-do list to see if you need to complete an academic plan. If this requirement is listed, you (the student) must initiate the academic plan . You must make a SAP appointment with your professional academic advisor to complete this plan. You may not complete this plan with a faculty advisor. The academic plan is a contract between you (the student) and the University of Massachusetts Boston. You are required to follow this contract in order to be considered for federal, state, and institutional financial aid at UMass Boston. A revised academic plan is required for any course changes agreed upon by you and your academic advisor. You are considered to be meeting the terms of the academic plan if you: Adhere to the maximum number of credits You are enrolled in the courses listed on the plan Student Instructions on completing the academic plan Enter your name and email address. Enter your advisor's name and email address Complete your section of the academic plan, follow the prompts through DocuSign. You will not be able to enter any information in the advisor section. E-sign your plan. Click “Finish”. Once your advisor has completed their section, you will receive an email with a copy of the completed plan. Upload your academic plan online by clicking on the SAP Appeal requirement in your WISER to-do list. Advisor Instructions on completing the academic plan You will receive an email with a DocuSign request. Follow the prompts to complete the advisor section, including max number of credits, and courses the students will take. E-sign the plan. Click “Finish”. Student Instructions for updating an academic plan You (the student) will fill out the student information section on the SAP Academic Plan Revision Form . Enter your name and email address. Enter your advisor’s name and email address. Follow the prompts to e-sign the form. Click “Finish”. Email your Financial Aid Counselor to unlock your appeal and upload your revised academic plan. Advisor Instructions for updating an academic plan You will receive an email with a DocuSign request. Follow the prompts to enter the max number of credits. If you approve of the student’s changes, e-sign the form. Click “Finish”. Financial Aid Services will receive an automatic email with a copy of the revised academic plan. No further action is needed. Schedule SAP Advising at the Links Below: Student Success Scholars Program Student Success Scholars Program , CC-1-1100 617-287-5820 College of Liberal Arts (CLA) Declared Majors CLA First! Students CLA Advising CLA First ! W-4-125, 617-287-5721 College of Science & Math (CSM) Declared Majors CSM Student Success Center , W-4-151 617-287-4846 College of Management (CM) majors with 60 or more credits or who have joined LEAD, TRAIL, or 3YD CM Undergrad Program Office , M-5-610 617-287-7760 School for the Environment (SFE) Majors School for the Environment , M-02-620 617-287-4576 College of Education & Human Development (CEHD) Majors CEHD Student Success Office , W-1-50 617-287-7610 College of Nursing & Health Sciences (CNHS) Majors CNHS Advising , Quinn-02-0093 617-287-7500 Undeclared Majors College of Management Majors with less than 60 credits Inter-College Transfers Academic & Career Engagement and Success Center (ACES), CC-1-1100 617-287-5500 Financial Aid UMass Boston Campus Center, 4th Floor 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Phone: 617.287.6300 Fax: 617.287.6323 finaid@umb.edu Merit-Based Scholarship Phone: 617.287.4850 merit.scholarships@umb.edu Undergraduate Scholarships UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms