Donations - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Library About Healey Library Donations Menu menu Menu About Healey Library Departments Donations Floor Directory Hours Policies Staff Directory Study Spaces Course Reserves E-Resources Help Info For Faculty Interlibrary Loan Journals My Library Account Donations Gift Policy: General | Gift Policy: University Libraries Archives and Special Collections | Terms | Tax Considerations | FAQ | Contact Us Gift Policy: General The support and assistance offered by generous donors has enabled Joseph P. Healey Library to expand its reach and its offerings as a 21st century academic research library. The Library welcomes financial donations as well as contributions of original archival materials and donations of rare books and manuscripts. Healey Library is unable to accept donations of physical items for our general collections, including books, journals, magazines, newspapers, and commercial media such as CDs, VHS tapes, and DVDs. This policy does not include current textbooks and course materials to be made available to students. For questions about other possible exceptions, please contact: Library.Admin@umb.edu You are invited to support the Library through your gifts that will help us to prioritize globally accessible research materials. Monetary gifts to Healey Library support our general collections budget, electronic journals and database subscriptions, collections of online streaming media, library special projects and strategic development, and other rich resources to benefit students, faculty, staff, and visitors at UMass Boston. In addition to a one-time gift, you might consider an enduring gift such as the establishment of an endowment fund in honor of a colleague or family member, or in support of an area of particular interest to you. Monetary gifts to Healey Library are tax deductible and will be acknowledged with a formal letter from the Dean of University Libraries. Click here to make a monetary donation online directly to Healey Library. To discuss an ongoing monetary gift in support of Healey Library, please contact: Samantha Regan , Assistant Dean for Administration and Finance 617.287.5917 Gift Policy: University Libraries Archives and Special Collections As a keystone of Healey Library’s academic research collections, University Archives and Special Collections (UASC) gratefully accepts donations of rare and archival materials that are aligned with its policies and mission.  UASC is particularly interested in collections relating to the history and founding of UMass Boston as well as to its surrounding geographical regions, social welfare agencies, alternative movements, local history, and other grassroots movements and community issues. Browse our digital collections as well as descriptions of our manuscripts and archival collections online. UMass Boston faculty and staff in particular may wish to consider donating items documenting their own involvement in the history, mission, and impact of the University. To inquire about donating manuscripts and archives, rare books, collections of photographs, non-commercial media (such as VHS, DVDs, and CDs) containing original footage, and other materials of an archival nature, please contact: Andrew Elder , University Archivist and Curator of Special Collections 617.287.5944 Terms of Acceptance Decisions to accept collections of rare and/or archival materials will be made in conversation with the University Archivist and Curator of Special Collections and the Dean of University Libraries. The Library may ask to review a potential donation before accepting materials and may choose to accept only part of the material offered. The offer to donate and the acceptance of the offer are formally agreed to by the donor and the Dean of University Libraries by signing the Healey Library Deed of Gift form. Gifts are considered outright and unrestricted donations. Healey Library becomes the sole owner of donated materials with the right to dispose of any materials that are not retained, unless the donor requests that unwanted items be returned as a condition in the Deed of Gift. Tax Considerations Archival, rare book, and special collections materials donated to the Library can be claimed as an income tax deduction based on fair-market value. Federal law requires an appraisal for gifts valued at $5,000 or more. Internal Revenue Service regulations prohibit the Library, as the recipient of a donation, from providing an appraisal of the donated material for tax purposes. The donor can make his/her own appraisal or hire another party. Please consult a tax specialist for guidance on this matter. Appraisals are at the donor’s expense and must be made prior to delivery of material to the library. Once the donated material enters the processing workflow or is integrated into the collection, an appraiser cannot be accommodated. Frequently Asked Questions Accepted Donations | Books | Collections | Journals | Media | Tax Considerations | Transportation | Contact Us What types of materials are suitable to donate to Healey Library? Healey Library may choose to accept donations of archival materials and media, rare books, or special collections that are aligned with the policies and mission of University Archives and Special Collections (UASC). UASC is particularly interested in collections relating to the history and founding of UMass Boston as well as to its surrounding geographical regions, social welfare agencies, the labor movement, local history, and other movements and issues. Healey Library may also choose to accept donations of current textbooks and current course materials. Please contact Library.Admin@umb.edu with questions, or call 617.287.5917 . I am a current faculty member. May I donate copies of my current course textbook or readings to the Library for students to check out? Please contact Library.Admin@umb.edu with information about the materials you would like to make available to your students via donation. Will the Library accept my donation of boxes of books? No, the Library is not able to accept donations of print materials (except those of archival nature or rare, special collections). What if the collection I want to donate is high quality/scholarly/unique/interesting? If you have an entire collection of materials that you think would be a good fit for Healey Library’s University Archives and Special Collections, please contact our Archives department for further discussion: Andrew Elder , University Archivist and Curator of Special Collections 617.287.5944 Is the library interested in back issues of journal titles? The Library no longer accepts donations of print journals, newspapers, or magazines. May I donate my collection of DVDs/VHS tapes/CDs? The Library is unable to accept donations of commercial media items. University Archives and Special Collections may choose to accept non-commercial VHS tapes and media items containing original material, such as interviews, recorded events, personal footage, “home movies,” etc. If you would like to donate archival media, please contact: Andrew Elder , University Archivist and Curator of Special Collections 617.287.5944 Are gifts to Healey Library tax deductible? Yes. Donations can be claimed as an income tax deduction based on fair-market value.  For more information see Tax Considerations. Does the Library provide an appraisal of the value of donated materials? No. IRS regulations prohibit the library, as the recipient of a donation, from providing an appraisal for tax purposes. Will the library send staff to my home to pick up donations? Donors are expected to arrange delivery of materials to the Library once the collection in question has been accepted by Healey Library. Whom should a potential donor contact? Potential donors should contact Healey Library Administration for questions and discussion: Library.Admin@umb.edu Thank you very much for considering a gift to the Healey Library, which will enable us to continue to transform the educational experiences of our community. We look forward to partnering with you! Back to Top Library Menu About Accessibility Archives Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Databases List E-Resources Give Now Healey Library News Help Info for Faculty InterLibrary Loan My Library Account Research Guides (Search by topic) ScholarWorks (Campus Archives for Faculty Research and Publications) UMBrella Worldcat at UMass Boston (Search libraries worldwide) Healey Library 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 US 617.287.5900 Giving to UMass Boston Invest in outstanding library collections and services and help ensure that students have access to the most state-of-the-art library resources. Give Now UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms