About Us - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs About Us Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match About Us Mission Statement The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs (ORSP) assists faculty engaged in externally funded research, instruction, community service, and other scholarly activities by providing direction, information, and technical assistance throughout the proposal and funding process. By continually streamlining the process, our office helps to strengthen the research enterprise at the University of Massachusetts Boston. All proposals for external funds must be submitted through ORSP. Our specialists review each proposal and walk the applicants through each step of the submission and award process. To advise and serve applicants more effectively, our office is composed of three teams; Preaward, Postaward, and Research Compliance.  An ORSP team will assist applicants during each stage of the process of obtaining external funding. Preaward The preaward team reviews each proposal prior to submission. This team verifies the accuracy of budget and administrative information provided in applications, reviews proposals for conformity to sponsor guidelines, ensures that commitments made in proposals can be honored, and confirms that awards meet sponsor and university guidelines. The preaward team negotiates grants and contracts on behalf of the university; assists with requests for additional funding, extensions, and changes in scope or principal investigator; and coordinates the submission of interim project reports. ORSP is the authorized institutional signatory for all proposals and awards. Postaward The postaward team ensures adherence to the university’s fiscal accountability policy for sponsored-projects funds and regulatory compliance with state, private, and federal policies. All expenditures and financial transactions to support research are reviewed and validated to make certain that award terms and conditions are met. The postaward team is responsible for postaward set up in PeopleSoft, financial analysis of awards, preapproval of obligations and expenditures on grants, billing to the sponsor, cash deposits and application, financial reporting to the sponsor, accounts receivable monitoring and collections. All university billings, letter of credit, or other requests for payment will be in the name of the University of Massachusetts Boston. Research Compliance The research compliance team is dedicated to adhering to all applicable laws, regulations, and policies of the University and outside sponsors. Through general and specific training, policies, and appropriate oversight and monitoring, the research compliance team helps members of UMass Boston community to conduct research activities based upon the highest standards of integrity and excellence. The team oversees all aspects of human subjects protections, animal welfare, export control, and conflict of interest reporting. In accomplishing this mission, ORSP ensures accountability, compliance, and stewardship for sponsored programs as directed by the values of the office and by all applicable federal, state, and university policies, procedures, and regulations. *The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs is led by the Director and Associate Vice Provost for Research and is part of the Office of the Vice Provost for Research and Strategic Initiatives and the Dean of Graduate Studies. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms