The Manning College - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences In This Section menu In This Section Departments & Centers Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Make a Difference in Health Equity & Well-Being for All The Donna M. and Robert J. Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences at UMass Boston develops innovative health solutions by building and supporting an integrated academic environment devoted to education, research, and community partnerships. From the lab to public policy, we are advancing individual and population health and health equity across the life span. With a commitment to excellence, cutting-edge research, and hands-on learning, we provide a transformative education that prepares students to meet the evolving demands of a number of health-related fields in aging, exercise, physical activity and health sciences, nursing and public health. Our innovative programs combine academic rigor with practical experience, ensuring that our graduates are well-equipped to make a meaningful impact. Why the Manning College? Our programs prepare students to be leaders in their fields and make a positive impact on health and health equity. Join us in making a difference in the lives of individuals, communities, and contribute to shaping better health and well-being for all. In This Section menu In This Section Departments & Centers Research & Engagement Student Success & Engagement Clinical & Internship Placements Scholarships: Beacons of Promise Application Requirements Alumni Network Faculty & Staff Contact Us Programs for Today's Health Challenges A diverse range of programs designed to meet the needs of today's health landscape. Our undergraduate and graduate programs offer specialized tracks in nursing, health sciences, exercise and physical activity, aging, and public health.  We also offer a certificate in substance use counseling. . Benefit from state-of-the-art facilities and partnerships with renowned health-related institutions, ensuring that you gain practical skills and knowledge to excel in your chosen field. Explore Majors & Programs Exceptional Faculty & Cutting-Edge Research Our faculty members are accomplished experts in their respective fields, bringing real-world experience and expertise into the classroom. Engage in meaningful research projects that address critical healthcare challenges and contribute to advancements in the field. Benefit from mentorship opportunities, as our faculty guides you in expanding your knowledge and developing your professional skills. Faculty Research Academics Expert Faculty & Staff Academic Departments Advising Advising helps you to find the right program and courses, stay on track to graduate, and get ready for a successful career. The Office of Advising Excellence coordinates academic advising across UMass Boston. Learn More About Advising Student Testimonials Hear from our nursing and health science students themselves as they share their experiences. We learn a lot at UMass Boston. We do a lot of simulation lab, case studies, and see what can happen at any time. That helps me a lot to take care of the people in the hospital, the real people. Anjali Paudel Embrace Hands-On Learning Experiences At the Manning College, we believe in the power of experiential learning. Gain valuable hands-on experience through practica, internships, and clinical placements, simulation labs, and community engagement initiatives. Our robust network of public and private, including healthcare partners provides you with the opportunity to apply your knowledge in real-world settings, ensuring that you graduate with the confidence and competence required to make a meaningful impact in your chosen field of study. Community of Health, Aging & Public Health Professionals When you join the Manning College, you become part of a supportive and collaborative community of health professionals. Network with peers, faculty, and alumni who share your passion for improving the health and well-being across the lifespan. Engage in professional development opportunities, attend industry conferences, and participate in student organizations that align with your interests and career goals. Next Steps Admissions Financial Aid & Scholarships Majors & Programs UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms