Catering and Dining Services - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Event Services Our Services Catering and Dining Services Menu menu Menu Our Office Our Event Venues Our Services Multimedia Services Hybrid Meeting Catering and Dining Services Office Furniture Move Request Form For External Clients & Conferences For Departments For Student Organizations Reservation & Space Use Policies Reserving Space Catering and Dining Services Full-Service Event Catering Whether it's a coffee hour, plated lunch, or a full-service gala, the catering team is committed to providing an exceptional experience Catering for Student Organizations For pick-up only, Square Tomato offers a wide selection of affordable options for Recognized Student Organization and intended for casual gatherings of 20 guests or less. What's New in Dining? Retail Dining Options See What's Open Now and daily menus. A COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE The UMass Boston Catering team is here to assist you though the event planning process from start to finish. We understand that food is an essential part of staging an event and we are committed to making your event a success. Working directly with the Conference and Event Services team, our goal is to make your experience as seamless as possible as you take advantage of the wide variety of services available to you. Our culinary team has designed a variety of menus to fit a wide range of tastes and budgets, including regional ingredients, university favorites, and specialty items. Whether you are looking to complement a morning meeting for ten with breakfast offerings , a lunch break for an all-day workshop, or a fully serviced award dinner , we are here to serve you. Our Flavours Catering Guide will walk you through the planning process and provide suggestions of what we can do to make your event memorable – from start to finish. Should you desire a customized menu for your event, we will be happy to meet with you personally to create a special menu for your specific needs. Email us now >> Please take a few minutes and review the links to our menus, photos of past events, as well as our policies and procedures to get you started. We look forward to exceeding your expectations and making your event on campus a success! Sincerely, Andy Allen General Manager | andy.allen@sodexo.com SUSTAINABILIY We recognize and understand our role as a service provider, employer, and corporate citizen.  The impact we can make on individuals, our communities, and the environment is great. Your UMass Dining Team is committed to providing a sustainable and environmentally conscious dining program through local and regional sourcing, reducing food waste, supporting the northeast organic dairy industry, and purchasing local and 100% sustainable seafood. Find out more about UMass Dining’s commitment to a better tomorrow. UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE POLICY UMass Boston Catering and Dining Services is the preferred food and beverage vendor on university property. The requirement that UMass Boston Catering provide all food services on campus reduces risk, makes certain that food and beverage service meets university standards, and provides our community with the following assurances: Food is transported, stored, prepared, and served under the guidance of licensed, insured, code-compliant vendors; Faculty, staff, students, and guests are shielded from foodborne illness; Food and beverage service meets university standards for sustainability; UMass Boston’s commitment to vendors providing full benefits and a living wage to their employees is upheld. NON-CATERED MEALS UMass Boston Dining Services has exclusive catering rights on campus, however, delivery and carry-in options are permitted for small meetings and office gatherings of no more than twenty-five people. These may include pizza delivery, grocery/deli trays, bakery refreshments, or a small food order that is picked-up, transported and setup by the event organizer. These are considered low-risk food services. For food safety and liability reasons, home prepared food may not be offered at events. *Please note that the Event Services office does not coordinate catering orders or other services offered by UMass Boston Catering. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms