Resources - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Pension Action Center Pension Resources Resources Menu menu Menu About Us Contact Us Donate El Centro De Accion En Pensiones Pension Resources FAQ Resources Sponsors Additional Resources Government Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) is located in the U. S. Department of Labor.  EBSA provides consumer information on pension plans and oversees private pensions.  Two useful guides for understanding and planning for retirement are What You Should Know about Your Retirement Plan and Taking the Mystery out of Retirement Planning . Social Security Administration provides many informative benefit calculators and booklets.  You can also download a form to request a detailed earnings report, which is sometimes necessary to establish eligibility for a pension. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, takes over the payment of pension benefits in cases where certain private company pension plans have gone bankrupt or otherwise ceased operations. Pension Search Directory offers a quick way to determine if you are owed a pension from a private plan now administered by the PBGC. Administration on Aging (AOA), a part of the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services, is a source of information and links in the broad area of issues and programs for older Americans. Nonprofit Organizations Pension Rights Center is the nation's only consumer organization dedicated solely to protecting and promoting the retirement security of American workers, retirees, and their families. Women's Institute for a Secure Retirement is dedicated to education and advocacy that will improve the long-term financial quality of life for women. Elder Law Answers provides information about crucial legal issues facing seniors. Elder Legal Services Offices in New England and Illinois Connecticut Illinois Maine Massachusetts New Hampshire Rhode Island Vermont Other Pension Counseling Projects If you are outside of both the New England and Illinois areas, please visit the link below to see if there is a similar service available in your area. Currently, 30 states are served by free pension counseling programs. Need Help Now? Call Us Toll-Free: 1.888.425.6067 UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms