McCormack Scholars - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home The McCormack School Academics McCormack Scholars Menu menu Menu Academics Special Projects Take a Class Student Success McCormack Scholars Research Conflict Resolution, Human Security & Governance Public Policy & Public Affairs McCormack Scholars The mission of the McCormack Scholars at UMass Boston is to encourage and facilitate holistic student success and to foster greater community engagement between McCormack students, the UMass Boston community, and the wider Boston metropolitan area. Who We Are McCormack Scholars is an officially registered club/student organization at UMass Boston. McCormack Scholars are current UMass Boston students who demonstrate a keen sense of leadership and a desire to further the success of their fellow-student colleagues at UMass Boston. They represent different programs and cohorts across UMass Boston. The purpose of McCormack Scholars is to encourage and facilitate student success through community engagement. Through a consensus-led approach, we design each meeting’s format and choose guest speakers based on what is most important to students in the school. Meetings include workshops and group discussions led by mentors, guest speakers, and peers. Become A McCormack Scholar McCormack Scholars membership shall consist of currently enrolled UMass Boston Bachelors, Masters and Ph.D. students within and outside the McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies. Register to Become a Member UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms