Andrew.Perumal - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home Directory Andrew.Perumal Andrew Perumal Department: Provost & VC Acad Affairs Title: Assoc Provost & Assoc Prof A Location: Quinn Administration Floor 03 Phone: 617.287.6957 Send Email Areas of Expertise Econometrics & Statistical Computing, Urban & Regional Economics, and Economic Education Degrees PhD, Economics, University of Nebraska-Lincoln Professional Publications & Contributions 42 Years of Urban Growth and Industry Composition , Atlantic Economic Journal 2017, 45(2), 133-147. What Do Firms Value? The Role of Industry Composition in Firm Location Decisions , Global Journal of Business Disciplines 2017, 1(1), 73-86. State Educational Mandates in Economics: Do We Really Need the Treat(ment)? , with C.J. Asarta, and R. B. Butters, Perspectives on Economic Education Research 2016, 10(1), 1-20. U.S. Vehicle Fuel Efficiency Choices: Demographic, Behavioral, and Cultural Factors , with D. Timmons, Journal of Environmental Planning and Management, 2016, DOI:10.1080/09640568.2015.1131675 Contextual Density and U.S. Automotive CO2 Emissions across the Rural-Urban Continuum , with D. Timmons, International Regional Science Review 2015, DOI: 10.1177/0160017615614897 Success in the Economics Major: Is it Path Dependent? , with C.J. Asarta and R.B. Butters, in New Developments in Economic Education, F.Mixon (ed.) 2014, Northhampton, MA. University of Massachusetts Boston Economic Contribution Analysis , with D. Terkla, 2013. How do Transfer Students Perform in Economics? Evidence from Intermediate Macroeconomics , with C.J. Asarta and S.M. Fuess, Jr,.Journal of Economic Education. 2013, 44(2). Are Asian-Pacific Real Exchange Rates (Trend) Stationary? , with B. Kim, Applied Economics Letters 2011, 18(16), 1531-1535. Additional Information Andrew Perumal joined UMass Boston as an assistant professor of economics in 2011. Perumal completed his graduate work at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln where he explored the underlying determinants of the Urban Wage Premium with a specific focus on firm and household choices. He is the recipient of the McConnell Outstanding Graduate Student Research Prize. During this time, he also worked as a Research Assistant for the Bureau of Business Research and was engaged in research ranging from evaluating Nebraska’s Worker Retraining Centers, to identifying growth industries for the city of Lincoln. He was also the recipient of several teaching awards, including the Department of Economics Award for Excellence in Teaching. Prior to beginning his graduate work, Perumal was a research assistant at the Institute of Policy Studies in Sri Lanka where he worked in the Industry Reform and Regulation, Poverty and Social Welfare, and Agricultural Economic Policy Units. As an urban and regional economist his research focuses on the micro-foundations, or mechanisms, that drive the economic benefits of urban agglomeration economies, analyses of urban labor markets and the environmental impacts of urbanization. As a methodologist he explores recent advances in statistical computing and integration of cutting-edge large scale data sources. Currently he is focusing on using night-time light satellite imagery and google map data to characterize and explore issues related to urbanization in developing countries. In economic education, he pursues his deep interest in teaching and student success, engaging in economic education research encompassing the evaluation of teaching methodologies for effectively conveying economics concepts; and, the application of economic modeling to understand and refine educational outcomes in economics coursework. As a teacher he employs innovative teaching methods, incorporating novel teaching and learning technologies to enhance student learning experience in the class. He was recently recognized for his dedication to teaching as one of the two recipients of the Face-to-Face Innovation in Teaching Award 2016. View Professor Perumal's curriculum vitae . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms