Beaconcard - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Campus Life Current Students Beaconcard Menu menu Menu Student Groups & Activities The Quad Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Student Affairs Dean Of Students Current Students Student Employment University Policies & Student Rights U-Access Discount Tickets Beaconcard Beacon Rewards Faq Lockers Seniorpictures BeaconCard (UMass Boston ID) Hours The BeaconCard Office's hours are Monday-Thursday: 8:30am-5:00pm Friday: Appointment only New BeaconCard Request & Photo Upload BeaconCard Replacements Manage Your BeaconCard Contingent or Contract Employee Card Request The BeaconCard is the official ID card of UMass Boston. It is required for all students and staff to obtain one and keep it on their person at all times when on campus. Because of its many functions as a One Card, it is required for the uses outlined below. What do I need to get a BeaconCard? Be an Active student or employee at UMass Boston Have a valid picture ID ready (license, passport, etc) or 3 printed proofs of address (utility bills, university correspondence, etc) What if the university misspelled my name? Please go to the One Stop on the Campus Center Upper Level to get it corrected before obtaining your BeaconCard. What if I get an error on BeaconCard Account Management? Make sure you use the link above.  If you use it without the "login.php," you'll have to hit Login twice. What makes the BeaconCard a true One Card (one card with many functions)?  What can I do with my BeaconCard? Access to rooms to which you have been authorized - see Access section below Dining Commons access if you have purchased a Meal Plan (purchase, manage, or see balances here) Make purchases and pay fees at any location accepting Beacon Bucks which you can add at beaconcard.umb.edu Use it as Library Card at the Healey Library Access to the Fitness Center, Gym, and Rink if you have a membership Check in at certain student events Earn Health Rewards for certain event attendance Free admission to the Museum of Fine Arts, JFK Library, and Edward M Kennedy Institute Parking Pass: Please contact Transportation & Parking at 617-287-5041 and general email address parking.trans@umb.edu What benefits can I get with my UMass Boston BeaconCard? ​For students who have paid tuition and associated fees, the following benefits are available: Free student membership to the Beacon Fitness Center Free admission to the Museum of Fine Arts, JFK Library, Edward M Kennedy Institute, and Mass. Archives Discounted passes and tickets to movies, museums, and more in the Student Activities and Leadership Office Citywide student discounts for theater tickets, concerts, etc. Staff members are not eligible for these benefits. BeaconCard Prices: An initial BeaconCard is provided to all students if billed via the student bill.  If not, the student will have to pay onsite. For lost cards, there is an additional replacement of $25.  Please make sure you have Beacon Bucks to pay the fee. We don't accept cash/checks anymore.  To do so, you will need to visit the Bursar. The receipt will be required. BeaconCard Care: Please take proper care of your BeaconCard to prolong its use and avoid replacement fees. Do not punch holes in the card. Do not bend card (e.g., in back pocket), as it contains a chip which may be damaged. Do not expose card to magnets. Your Responsibility: The BeaconCard is an identification card; please carry it with you at all times and do not allow others to borrow it. Possession of a borrowed, false, or altered ID is a serious offense, which will subject the bearer to disciplinary action. Lost Cards: Please use the BeaconCard Account Management site to deactivate your card so no one else can use it.  Select Deactivate Your BeaconCard under the Account Management menu on the left. Orientation: If you are planning to have a large group of students obtain cards as part of an orientation or otherwise, please email SATS@umb.edu at least 3 business days in advance with the list of names and ID numbers and the date/time you are requesting to obtain cards for the group. Request/Change Building Access Permission: Your BeaconCard can be activated with permissions that grant you card access to spaces around campus that are equipped with card readers.  Have the supervisor (or designee) of your department/area send an approval authorization to SATS@umb.edu which includes: Full legal name Student or Employee ID Number Space(s) requested Access end date Your permission will be added to your BeaconCard within 24-48 hours after review. Meal Plans: Questions regarding meal plans. You can also contact Sodexo: 617-287-5033 and Diane 617-287-5052 / mealplan@umb.edu Change of Name: The name printed on your BeaconCard will be your Chosen Name as listed on WISER. Please visit the Change of Name page for any clarifications and inquiries. Any changes to your name will be updated on your BeaconCard in 24-48 hours. Students: For issues regarding Chosen Name of Primary Name/Legal Name please visit the Office of the Registrar, Campus Center 4th Floor. 617.287.6200/registrar@umb.edu Faculty and Staff: For issues regarding Chosen Name of Primary Name/Legal Name please contact Human Resources. 617.287.5150/hr@umb.edu UMass Boston Photo Upload Guidelines: • Entire head and shoulders, but no more • Looking straight ahead (no profile or 3/4 angle) • No hats, caps, scarves, sunglasses • No animals or props • Solid white background • A straight face or smile. No funny faces, please Here are examples of approved photos. Entire head and shoulders, white background and look straight at the camera. Here are examples of photos NOT to upload. Your photos will get denied with scenery background, sideway upside-down picture, partial face and with people in the background. BeaconCard Office Wheatley 1-003 Monday-Thursday: 8:30am-5:00pm Friday: Appointment only 617.287.7326 SATS@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms