Our Staff - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Health Services Counseling Center Our Staff Menu menu Menu About Emergencies Health Happenings Counseling Center Our Services Our Staff Referrals Resources General Medicine Wellness Patient Resources Immunizations & Health Requirements Forms Billing My Health Beacon Portal General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu Counseling Center Staff Bill DeFranc, PhD Psychologist and Interim Co-Director Bill is a doctoral-level psychologist whose professional interests managing mood disorders; anger management; gender role socialization, and male psychological development; and training and supervision of graduate students in psychology. At the Counseling Center, Bill uses a goal-oriented and strengths based approach to counseling so student clients can measure their progress in therapy. He utilizes various therapeutic techniques such as cognitive-behavioral therapy for a range of issues such as depression and anxiety. Bill enjoys spending time with his family and friends, traveling, and going to the beach in the summer. Teri L Grayson, MSW, LICSW (she/her/hers) Clinical Social Worker, Interim Co-Director and Coordinator of Black & African American Student Mental Health Teri is a Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker who received a B.A. in Sociology from UMass Amherst and a Master of Social Work with certification in Urban Leadership from Simmons University.  She uses strength-based modalities to support students dealing with life stressors, anxiety, depression, and other issues that may be impacting their wellbeing. As an African American woman who grew up in the Greater Boston area, Teri personally understands the importance of acknowledging and supporting issues of diversity and culture.  Knowing the importance of seeing oneself reflected, she has been intentional in serving the communities where she grew up, spending a majority of her career providing community-based mental health services. She has been working in college mental health for the past six years and has a small private practice. When not working, Teri enjoys traveling, participating in a book club (although she rarely reads the books), and spending time with her husband, son, and dog Ruby. Rachel Blumberg, LICSW, MSW,  (she/her/hers) Clinical Social Worker Rachel is a Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker with a M.S.W from University of California, Berkeley School of Social Work, and a BA from Connecticut College. Rachel has a background working in various settings with children, young adults, and families in the child welfare system in CA and in various hospital social work settings here in Boston. In her current position, Rachel provides individual and group therapy, consultation, crisis services as well as training and outreach. Rachel employs a strengths-based approach and works to help students recognize and build upon their own existing supports, coping skills, and resilience in order to manage during challenging times. Rachel identifies as a white, cisgender female and strives to provide a safe and welcoming environment for students of all backgrounds and identities. Outside of work, Rachel enjoys hiking, cooking, and chasing after her dog. Zeljka Mileusnic, Psy.D. (she/her/hers) Staff Psychologist Zeljka is a doctoral-level psychologist whose professional interests include anxiety disorders, grief work, relationship dynamics, dreams, and spirituality.  Her approach to therapy is collaborative, strength-based and rooted in relational, social justice, and developmental principles. Zeljka strives to tailor therapy to the unique needs of the individual and to provide a safe space where one could feel seen, heard and appreciated. In additional to individual therapy Zeljka has been involved in running various anxiety reduction groups and providing support groups for international students. Zeljka appreciates nature and long walks in all sorts of weather, reading books from diverse disciplines and travels to her home country Croatia where most of her family lives. Anna Yerang Lee, Ph.D. (she/her/hers) Staff Psychologist Anna is a staff psychologist who received her degree in Counseling Psychology from Boston University. She has a special interest in working with emerging and young adults with marginalized identities including race, ethnicity, abilities/disabilities, gender, sexuality, religion, and socioeconomic status. Anna’s therapeutic approach includes cognitive behavioral, humanistic, and feminist theories as well as social justice approach. She identifies as a Korean cisgender woman with disabilities. She would be happy to speak Korean in sessions with students who prefers to speak the language. Prior to coming to University of Massachusetts in Boston, she worked in other college counseling settings, such as Counseling, Health, & Wellness at Suffolk University and University Counseling Services at Boston College. When she is not working, she enjoys spending time with her family and friends, eating Korean food, and watching Bluey with her little ones. Allyson Gormley, LICSW Clinical Social Worker Allyson is a Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker with a MSW from Boston University and BA from University or Rhode Island.  Allyson brings her prior experience working within a medical setting where she supported individuals coping with complex medical conditions, trauma history, substance use and mental health.  She has a special interest in women’s health, anxiety, and grief work.  Allyson utilizes a cognitive behavioral approach in her individual work with clients.  She is a strengths-based clinician who is excited to work with the students of UMB. On her days off, Allyson enjoys anything outside (even in the cold) and being with her boys and dog. Judith Taveras, LICSW Clinical Social Worker and Coordinator or Avanced Mulitcultural Training Program Judith received her MSW from BU’s School of Social Work, after working in hire ed and non-profit for several years. As a social worker, she has previously supported survivors of intimate partner violence (IPV), folx who have struggled with substance misuse, and individuals managing severe mental illness. In her current work, Judith takes a humanistic, strengths based, and relational attachment approach to supporting her clients. With the goal to create a space in which folx feel empowered to process their experiences while stabilizing and increasing their self-compassion. Judith self identifies as queer, first-generation, Afro-Latina who is cisgender and uses she/her/hers pronouns. In her free time, she enjoys spending time with family and friends, wrapped up in a good book, or messing up a bread recipe. Leah Livingstone (she/her/hers) Clinic Administration Leah is our front desk staff and is most likely to be the first person you will meet coming into the Counseling Center.  Leah is in charge of scheduling, administrative duties and keeping the Counseling Center running.  Leah’s goal is to make sure that every person who walks through our doors feels welcome, safe, and cared for. Outside of work Leah enjoys spending time with her family, traveling to Walt Disney World, reading fiction novels and watching Elmo’s World with her granddaughter.  She is also an advocate for her transgender and disabled son.  Leah identifies as a cisgender white woman. The UHS Counseling Center serves as a training site for second-year students in the UMass Boston Clinical Psychology Doctoral Program. When office space and schedules permit, the Counseling Center also serves as a training site for second-year social work interns and advanced psychology trainees and clinical fellows. General Medicine All departmental services are located in the Quinn Administration Building, 2nd floor. Phone: 617-287-5660 Fax: 617-287-3977 Counseling Center 24/7 Crisis Phone Support 855.634.4135 Phone: 617.287.5690 Fax: 617.287.5507 counseling.center@umb.edu Health & Wellness wellness@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms