Archive1 - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Center for Women in Politics & Public Policy Events Cwppp Archive1 Menu menu Menu About Womens Political Leadership Events Cwppp Archive1 Registration New England Women’s Policy Initiative Research Resources Support Events Archive April 2, 2013: Madeleine Kunin: The New Feminist Agenda The former Governor of Vermont and Ambassador to Switzerland joined us to discuss her most recent book, The New Feminist Agenda: Defining the Next Revolution for Women, Work, and Family. Prior to the lecture, we held a special alumnae reception. It was an enormous honor to have Governor Kunin on campus; we were also thrilled to have Elizabeth Sherman and Betty Taymor join us for the evening. March 5, 2013: From Miss Representation to Mass Representation: Educating for Change Thanks to a special collaboration with the Center for Women, Gender, and Sexuality at UMass Dartmouth, we screened Miss Representation in March. A panel discussion featuring Priti Rao of the Massachusetts Women’s Political Caucus, Cheryl Crawford of MassVOTE, and Christina Knowles in her role as Massachusetts NOW PAC Chair, followed the film. February 12, 2013: Women Candidates for Municipal Elected Office: Decisions, Resources, and Structure Fulbright Scholar Fatma Şenol presented her qualitative research on women candidates running for municipal office and used her findings to offer suggestions on how to encourage more women to seek elected office. November 15, 2012: Women and Political Leadership in Massachusetts This event featured state representatives Denise Garlick and Jennifer Benson, as well as former Boston City Council candidate Sheneal Parker. The women spoke of their experiences running for office, including the specific challenges they faced as female candidates, and for Parker, as a woman of color. October 23, 2012: Linda Killian: The Swing Vote: The Power of Independent Voters in 2012 Washington journalist, political pundit, and author Linda Killian kicked off our series in October when she came to campus to discuss her latest book, The Swing Vote . In addition to examining how swing voters influence elections, Ms. Killian spoke of the critical need for women’s voices in the media. Susan Tracy served as the discussion moderator. May 30, 2012: Women's Pipeline for Change Conference: Promoting Pathways for Women of Color Leadership This conference explored research findings and collaborations that support women of color leaders. Featured presentations by: Elizabeth Cardona, Martina Cruz, Holyoke Councilwoman Gladys Lebrón-Martinez, Sheneal Parker, and Fitchburg Mayor Lisa Wong. March 22, 2012: Spring Women's Research Forum: The Political Leadership of Women of Color: What’s Research Got to Do with It? This event featured presentations by Elizabeth Cardona, Martina Cruz, Holyoke Councilwoman Gladys Lebrón-Martinez, Sheneal Parker, and Fitchburg Mayor Lisa Wong. March 15, 2012: Women Making a Difference in Worcester US Attorney Carmen Ortiz and State Senator Harriette L. Chandler were guest lecturers for this off-campus event. October 26, 2011: Fall Women's Research Forum: Youth Development Today: The Role of Mentors, Empowerment, and Being Active Panelists included Professors Melissa Pearrow and Jean Rhodes and GoKids Director Jean Wiecha and was moderated by Ruth Bramson, CEO of the Girl Scouts of Eastern Massachusetts. June 15, 2011: Networking Open House for Women in Politics and Public Policy at McFaddens Restaurant, Providence, RI June 2, 2011: Networking Open House for Women in Politics and Public Policy at Silvertone Bar & Grill, Boston, MA May 17, 2011: PWPPP Graduation Celebration with keynote speaker, Carmen Ortiz, U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts April 28, 2011: Participatory Action Research Fellowship for Women of Color Leaders , a public launch at the Massachusetts State House April 20, 2011: Unfinished Business: Building Equality for Women in the Construction Trades, 30th Women's Research Forum April 14, 2011: "I Want My Million Dollars!" Why Every Woman Should Care about the Wage Gap Evelyn Murphy, PhD, Former Lt. Governor, and Director of WAGE Project lectured at this special event. Watch on C-SPAN. March 23, 2011: Run, Women, Run! Encouraging Women to Run for Office Panelists included Senator Katherine Clark, Representative Gloria Fox, Sheriff Andrea Cabral, Suffolk County, Cambridge City Councilor Denise Simmons March 28, 2011: Women and the Uprising in Egypt A guest lecture by Margot Badran, PhD March 8, 2011: International Women's Day Breakfast at Simmons College (co-sponsored event) March 1, 2011: Women and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, a State House Library Forum Join our mailing list to stay informed about future events. cwppp@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms