Mission & Vision - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Writing Center About Us Mission & Commitments Menu menu Menu About Us Commitment To Anti Racism History Locations & Hours Meet The Staff Mission & Commitments Community Norms & Policies Research & Assessment Services For Faculty Services For Students Mission & Commitments The University of Massachusetts Boston Writing Center serves the university community by supporting undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and staff and by creating an equitable, socially, racially, and linguistically just culture of writing throughout campus and in the community. In doing so, we contribute to UMB’s mission of inclusive excellence in teaching, research, and service, and support the goal of being a leading anti-racist health-promoting institution. As part of an urban research university, we seek to center the needs of first-generation writers, writers of color, writers with disabilities, and multilingual, and international writers, knowing that their cultural and linguistic knowledges haven’t always been valued. We believe that the diversity of their backgrounds, ways of being, and lived experiences should be at the core of the knowledge creation that happens on campus. Our writing center aims to provide accessible and adaptive services – such as individual tutoring, workshops, and consultations with faculty. The UMB Writing Center believes that every writer benefits from supportive and generous interaction with a knowledgeable peer, both online and in-person, on their writing. As such, we work with writers on all writing projects – whether personal, academic, or professional – at any stage. During writing sessions, our well-trained undergraduate and graduate consultants collaborate with writers on their goals and take into account academic and social contexts. The UMB Writing Center also exists as a space for faculty and staff across campus to have conversations about the teaching of writing. We consult, collaborate, and offer programming for faculty to support writing instruction that is guided by writing studies research and just practices. Professional development, research, and assessment are also central to our mission; therefore, we maintain a rigorous professional development program for our staff, offer a course on tutoring, and engage with the broader writing center community by conducting research and participating in conferences. The administrative team conducts research and publishes scholarship in the fields of writing studies and writing centers and assesses writing center practices and programming. Our long-term vision includes a commitment to serving the needs of writers in the surrounding community, including students and teachers in Boston’s K-12 schools and organizations. As such, we seek to foster mutually beneficial partnerships between the UMB Writing Center and other organizations. Ultimately, we envision a transformational and more just culture of writing across campus and the broader community. Writing Center Main location: Campus Center, First Floor, Room 1300 Boston, MA 02125 USA 617.287.6753 writingcenter@umb.edu Connect Find us on Twitter Find us on Instagram UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms