Resolution Process - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Civil Rights & Title IX Resolution Process Menu menu Menu ADA & Accommodations Sexual Respect & Title IX Civil Rights Resolution Process Policies & Forms Laws & Regulations File a Complaint Get Support & Resources Contact Us Resolution Process The Office of Civil Rights and Title IX will work with people who come to raise a concern or make a complaint. We will give them the agency to choose how or if they want to participate in a resolution process. We offer both informal and formal resolution opportunities. Informal resolution opportunities could be, but are not limited to, no contact directives, assistance with switching class schedules, along with other informal remedies. Our formal resolution process includes an opportunity to have an investigation conducted by a neutral civil rights investigator from our office who will act as a fact finder. The goal of the resolution process is to resolve matters of alleged discrimination in the soundest way for the parties involved and the university. To file a complaint with our office please click the link to our complaint form below. The complaint form will be sent to our office once completed and someone from our office will reach out to you to meet with you and discuss your complaint. Report a Concern or File a Complaint Employees who would like to request an accommodation please contact Susan.Damato@umb.edu . Students who are seeking accommodations should contact the Ross Center for Disability Services . Have a question or concern? Contact us by email at AnneValerie.Imparato@umb.edu . Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Quinn Administration Building, 3rd Floor, Room 23 617.287.4818 Civilrights.titleix@umb.edu 617.287.4833 File a Complaint Get Support & Resources Contact Us UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms