Proposal Development Grant Program - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Research Research & Sponsored Programs Internal Funding Programs Proposal Development Grant Program Menu menu Menu Community-Driven Research Data Research & Reports Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Research & Sponsored Programs About Us All Forms Find Funding Commercial Ventures & Intellectual Property NCURA Peer Review PI Toolkit Faculty & Staff Resources Kuali Effort Reporting Grant Forum Research Committees Research Compliance Research Policies Training & Education ORSP FAQs ORSP Glossary Contact Us Internal Funding Programs Proposal Development Grant Program Public Service Grant Program Joseph P. Healey Research Grant Program Past Awards and Funding Institutional Review Board (IRB) Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Match Proposal Development Grant Program The Proposal Development Grant Program supports pilot research directly relevant to the preparation and writing of a competitive proposal for submission to an external funding opportunity. Deadline Applications must be submitted via Kuali Proposal Development by Monday, April 1, 2024, at 5:00 PM EST. Contact your Departmental Research Administrator for further guidance. Awards Announced ~June 1, 2024 Maximum Award $20,000 For additional information, please contact internal.grants@umb.edu . Eligibility to Submit a Proposal Current UMass Boston faculty or research staff members are eligible to submit a proposal for consideration. Single or multi-PI applications are eligible, including non-UMass Boston senior personnel (unfunded collaborators). Proposal Development PIs or co-PIs cannot have received more than: One UMass Boston internal grant in the current fiscal year. UMass Boston's internal grant mechanisms include Healey Research, Public Service, and Proposal Development) Two UMass Boston internal grant-funded grants within the same mechanism within a period of six years. (e.g., two Proposal Development grants in six years) Three total UMass Boston internal grants from any combination of internal grant competitions within 6 years Previous Proposal Development Grant awardees who have not fulfilled the requirement to submit a competitive proposal to an external funding opportunity are ineligible for future Proposal Development support. Previous UMass Boston Internal Grant Program awardees who have not submitted all required reports or have not published books or articles in peer-reviewed journals as a result of prior support are ineligible for future grant support. Application and Submission Information Applicants are required to submit Proposals through Kuali Proposal Development (PD) . Applicants must contact their Department’s Research Administrator for assistance in submitting their application. Download the Kuali Internal Funding Programs Guide (also called: Aggregator Internal Submission Guide). By using UMass Boston’s online portal, all department-related signatories, such as Dept. Chairs and Deans will be sent notifications to approve proposals electronically. PI’s, and CO-PI’s, will also be sent notifications to confirm Financial Conflict of Interest. Excluding the ORSP Budget Workbook, the following attachments must be completed and saved as PDFs for your Internal Submission. Checklist of Submission Items 1. ORSP Budget Tool 2. Budget Justification 3. Abstract 4. Project Narrative 5. Biosketch (es) 6. Current and Pending Support 7. Letters of Collaboration (if applicable) Proposal Development Grant Program - Requirements The Proposal Development Grant Program supports pilot research directly relevant to the preparation and writing of a competitive proposal for submission to an external funding opportunity. Budget Workbook Max Award amount: $20,000 No indirect costs or F&A on any application Use ORSP Budget Tool found here . Keep this attachment in excel format. Request only those items indispensable to the project and not available through one’s department or from other funding sources. Budget Justification The accompanying budget justification must explain each item requested in this budget – a maximum of 2 pages, with a font size no smaller than 12. Allowable budget items: Graduate & Undergraduate research assistants Required supplies and materials Database Access Technical and/or administrative support above and beyond standard departmental resource Travel costs that are necessary to conduct the research Funds to conduct research using the UMass Boston Core Facilities – Genomics Core, Environmental Analytical Core Facility, and the Animal Facility. Unallowable budget items: Course buyouts, salaries, or additional compensations for PI or Co-PIs Travel to present results of research Only in unusual circumstances will the equipment be considered Personnel costs at other universities or institutions Abstract Abstracts are a maximum of 1 page, with a font size no smaller than 12. Please include the following; A succinct project description and summary of the proposed work which should be informative to other persons working in the same or related fields If applicable, briefly describe the interdisciplinary or multi-disciplinary nature of the proposed project Project Narrative Narratives are a maximum of 8 pages, double-spaced, with a font size no smaller than 12. This is the core of the proposal describing the project for which funding is being requested. The applicant must be as clear as possible, remembering that the review committee will represent various disciplines and program areas and will not necessarily have strong expertise in the subject matter of the proposal. The project narrative must include the following elements: Significance of the proposed project that will be the subject of a proposal to be developed and submitted to an Extramural funding source A brief review of relevant literature related to the proposed project, citing where appropriate one’s own past and/or present research Strategy for the development and submission of a proposal to an extramural funding source, including aims and a set of activities, with a timeline for accomplishment The distinction between the aims of the present proposal with related research activities to be conducted within the timeline of the grant award and the aims of the grant proposal to be developed and submitted to an external funding agency Identification of a specific extramural funding agency to which the proposal will be submitted with substantiation of the agency’s likelihood of funding the topic Biosketch(es) A Biosketch is needed for each PI and Key Personnel – maximum 3 pages. Further instructions are on the Biosketch Template found here . Current and Pending Support PI’s and all Key Personnel must each complete the Current and Pending Support form found here. Other Attachments Letters of Collaboration – Letters of collaboration should be limited to stating the intent to collaborate and should not contain endorsements or evaluations of the proposed project. Letter of Collaboration Template found here . Review Process and Committees Awards will be announced on June 1, 2024 Each Internal Funding Opportunity has its own Review Committee. Each committee is comprised of university faculty, and research staff members, and, if feasible, community partners drawn from various disciplines, program areas, and community perspectives will review all proposals. The Proposal Development Grant final funding and award decisions will be made by the Vice Provost for Research. The committee will evaluate, score, and rank each eligible proposal according to the following merit criteria: Significance: The extent to which the proposal to be developed and submitted to an extramural funding source will make an original and important contribution to the field of inquiry it addresses. Project Development Strategy: The extent to which the pilot research and the information (data) generated will provide the foundation for a sound and competitive proposal. Likelihood of Funding: The extent to which the proposal identifies an appropriate funding source and the likelihood that the proposal to be developed and submitted will be selected for funding by the extramural agency. Quality of Presentation: The extent to which the proposal demonstrates a level of “grantsmanship” that reflects the quality of the proposal to be submitted to a federal or private funding agency. Award Management The Proposal Development Grants are administered in accordance with established university fiscal procedures and policies relating to the conduct of sponsored programs. Accounts for all awards will be established within one month of being recommended for funding decisions. The anticipated project period will be from July 1, 2024 to December 31, 2025. All budgets expenditures and project activities must occur within the project period. The following conditions are attached to the award and must be accepted by the recipient at the time of the grant award: A final project report must be filed with the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs within two months of the expiration date of the internal award, summarizing grant project activities, outcomes, and expenditures. All documents, papers, and publications associated with the activities supported by the grant award must acknowledge the assistance of the Proposal Development Grant program of the University of Massachusetts Boston. UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms