- UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Request Info Visit Apply Give Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Request Info Visit Apply Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Give Home News Recent News UMass Boston and MathWorks Launch New MathWorks Sc Menu menu Menu Recent News Publications 2022 2021 2020 Communications UMass Boston and MathWorks Launch New MathWorks Scholars Program 01/17/2023 |
    Office of Communications New Program Supported by $1 Million Grant Aims to Boost Diversity in Tech Sector “ UMass Boston students are ambitious, determined, and steeped in a tremendous variety of perspectives. ” UMass Boston and MathWorks are partnering to establish a new career-readiness initiative that will help launch UMass Boston students—the most diverse student body in New England—into successful careers. Creating a cohort-based pathway of scholarships, curricular support, and paid internships, the program is designed to expand early-career opportunities for UMass Boston students, build a diverse and highly trained pipeline of job candidates, and increase the number of people with underrepresented identities working in the region’s technology sector. The MathWorks Scholars Program is being underwritten by a $1 million grant from the Natick-based company. “We are deeply grateful to MathWorks for their partnership and their vision in developing this important program,” said UMass Boston Chancellor Marcelo Suárez-Orozco . “As Boston’s only public research university, our guiding lights are ‘access’ and ‘opportunity,’ and the MathWorks Scholars Program is an exemplar of how we can collaborate with like-minded organizations to provide students with both.” Over the next four years, starting next year, the MathWorks Scholars Program will provide half tuition, renewable scholarships to 20 full-time undergraduate students with financial needs whose career interests are aligned with professional roles within MathWorks. These students will form the first cohort of MathWorks Scholars and will be guided by a designated professional academic and career advisor, whose salary is also supported by the MathWorks grant. The MathWorks Scholars will engage in extensive college success and career readiness programming throughout their college tenure, including a career course taught by their advisor that focuses on the fundamentals of success in professional settings. Separate from this funding, MathWorks will also provide paid internships, including travel stipends, to UMass Boston students, with priority given to MathWorks Scholars. “MathWorks is a values-driven organization, and one of the values that defines us is respect for what everyone has to offer. UMass Boston students are ambitious, determined, and steeped in a tremendous variety of perspectives,” said Jeanne O’Keefe , CFO and senior vice president at MathWorks. “Helping them reach their potential isn’t just the right thing to do, it makes good business sense. We can’t wait to learn what they’ll contribute at MathWorks and beyond.” About MathWorks MathWorks is the leading developer of mathematical computing software. MATLAB, the language of engineers and scientists, is a programming environment for algorithm development, data analysis, visualization, and numeric computation. Simulink is a block diagram environment for simulation and Model-Based Design of multidomain and embedded engineering systems. Engineers and scientists worldwide rely on these product families to accelerate the pace of discovery, innovation, and development in automotive, aerospace, electronics, financial services, biotech-pharmaceutical, and other industries. MATLAB and Simulink are also fundamental teaching and research tools in the world's universities and learning institutions. Founded in 1984, MathWorks employs more than 5000 people in 16 countries, with headquarters in Natick, Massachusetts, USA. For additional information, visit mathworks.com . About UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is deeply rooted in the city’s history, yet poised to address the challenges of the future. Recognized for innovative research, metropolitan Boston’s public university offers its diverse student population both an intimate learning environment and the rich experience of a great American city. UMass Boston’s colleges and graduate schools serve 16,000 students while engaging local and global constituents through academic programs, research centers, and public service. To learn more, visit www.umb.edu . UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms