Museum Partnerships - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Liberal Arts Departments Art & Art History Research & Impact Museum Partnerships Menu menu Menu Academics Departments Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Linguistics Art & Art History Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Impact Museum Partnerships News Scholarships And Awards Asian Studies Classics & Religious Studies Communication Economics English History Latin American & Iberian Studies Latino Studies Modern Languages, Literatures & Cultures Native American & Indigenous Studies Performing Arts Philosophy Political Science Psychology Sociology Women’s, Gender & Sexuality Studies Faculty & Staff Student Resources Research & Centers Dean's Office Museum Partnerships Announcements Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum - Ambassadors Program for UMB CLA Students There are paid summer internships reserved for UMB CLA students ($19/hour, subject to taxes). Internships consist of 2 hours/week in seminar, 2 hours/week in Gallery Ambassadorship, 24 hours/week in one of the following museum positions: Academic Research Ambassador Collection Photography Research Ambassador Contemporary Art Ambassador Development Ambassador Membership Ambassador Public Programs Ambassador Museum Education Ambassador Community Engagement Ambassador Students will apply to work in one museum department. Graduating seniors are eligible to apply. Application Deadline: March 18, 2024 Interviews: March 25-April 5th Decision Notification: April 15th-19th Program Dates: May 28-July 26, 2024 Applications must include: · Resume · 150-word paragraph describing how participation in the program will help you reach your future academic and career goals · If applying to more than one position, a ranking of your top three choices Send all application materials to museumpartnerships@umb.edu. Boston is home to a number of world-class museums. We encourage UMass Boston students to take full advantage of these institutions, and to use the privileged access that our students enjoy: Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum As members of the University Membership program at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum you receive ONE free General Admission ticket per visit. Be sure to pick up your UMB Gardner Museum sticker at CLA advising or at the Art Dept. Office.  At this time advanced tickets are required for entry and can be reserved online at gardnermuseum.org/visit . GET TICKETS: Go to the event ticket page on the website. Apply promo code UMASSCLA. If you wait until checkout to apply the code, the price will not change if the ticket is already in the basket.) Hit "submit" Choose your date and time Add Student (or Adult ticket for faculty/staff) ticket to the cart - only one per ticket order Log in or create an account Continue to "check out". You will see the ticket go to $0 in your cart Please present both your e-tickets and a valid University ID (with the CLA sticker) with you arrive. Should you have any difficulty securing tickets online, please contact the Box Office at 617 278 5156 or info@isgm.org . Please make sure to review our health and safety requirements on our website at isgm.org/welcome before visiting the Museum. Know before you go! Museum of Fine Arts The Museum of Fine Arts is among the country’s most important collections of art. Its collections span the globe and human history. All UMass Boston students have free admission to the museum. MFA tickets are available same-day only and onsite by showing your university ID. For opening hours and more information visit: www.mfa.org Institute of Contemporary Art Students enrolled in Art courses for the 2022-2023 academic year may visit the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston free of charge. The modality for doing so, though, has slightly changed per the museum's policy: -Student must reserve a free ticket online at the museum's website using the code UMB2022ICA: www.icaboston.org/page/university-membership -Students must also obtain a free sticker from the Art Department to put on their UMB ID and show it at the museum. These can be obtained from faculty members or the dept. office. Harvard Art Museums Please consult their webpage for COVID-19-related closings. Harvard Art Museums are normally free when you present your UMass Boston ID. For opening hours and more information visit: www.harvardartmuseums.org For more information on our Museum Partnerships, please contact: museumpartnerships@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms