Student Stories - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Academics Study Abroad Getting Started Student Stories Menu menu Menu Majors & Programs Advising Colleges & Schools Student Equity, Access & Success Global Programs Study Abroad Getting Started Diversity & Inclusion FAQs Student Stories Study Abroad Programs Faculty Taught International Programs Requirements Financing Study Abroad Health & Safety Before You Go When You Return Fellowships Provost's Office Student Stories and Blog Are you a UMass Boston student currently study abroad or want to share a story from your time abroad? Submit a blog entry to be featured on our Study Abroad Blog ! We are asking for all of our UMass Boston study abroad alumni to contribute to this blog to reflect on their experiences, share their stories, and provide insight to future study abroad students. For many, studying abroad is a life-changing experience. It changes the way we think, interact, and perceive the world. If you are a student interested in studying abroad, please use this site to learn from those who have taken the leap and returned to share their tale! INSTRUCTIONS WHEN SUBMITTING: Please include at the top of your submission: Your name Country and city The term and year The program name you attended 1-3 pictures of your time abroad What you submit about your experience is up to you! Some ideas on what to include are: How study abroad affected you academically and personally? How was your classes? What was your favorite class? Where you traveled/ what your favorite part of the city was/ what the culture was like Would you recommend the program to other students? Why or why not? Advice you have for other students studying in the country in which you lived. Get creative! To submit a blog entry, please email studyabroad@umb.edu . Videos from UMass Boston Students Abroad Check out photos from UMass Boston study abroad alumni on Instagram: @umb_studyabroad #beaconsabroad Follow us on Instagram to see photos from around the world Like us on Facebook Join our email list for updates Go to our student blog! UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms