Records - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Registrar Academic Records & Grades Records Menu menu Menu Academic Calendar Registration Academic Records & Grades Grades Records Policies Forms Graduation Faculty & Staff Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu Records Welcome to the transcript ordering page for the University of Massachusetts Boston Announceme nts Please note that until further notice paper transcripts will NOT be prepared for on campus pick up. Electronic and paper transcripts can be ordered through the National Student Clearinghouse Need your UMS/student ID number? Click here to use the Student ID Lookup tool Transcripts via National Student Clearinghouse Unofficial Transcript Instructions Go to the National Student Clearinghouse website to place a transcript order for paper or electronic transcripts. General Information: The National Student Clearinghouse transcript services are available for those who attended UMass Boston or Boston State College. Electronic Transcripts are emailed out within 24 hours. Paper Transcript requests are processed within 1-2 business days. More information on shipping options below. During peak periods, please allow additional time for processing and delivery. Please retain the order number provided at the end of your order. You will also receive an email confirmation. You can also opt into receiving text messages. If you have a hold on your account, we may not be able to process your request. You will be notified if you have a hold that prevents you from generating a transcript. If you clear your hold within 30 days of ordering your transcript order will be processed. You will not be charged if we cannot process your request. IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS for those who attended Boston State College, or UMass Boston prior to spring of 1982: During the ordering process please provide as much information as possible. For example: Dates of attendance, date of birth, social security number, full name while attended are helpful for finding your record. Please select University of Massachusetts as the source school. Even if you attended Boston State. You will get a notice that your record was not found in our system. Don’t worry- continue with the order and we will research your request. Summary of Transcript Costs and Delivery Methods: You have two options for ordering transcripts: 1) Electronic transcript delivery is the preferred method. Fees are $3.90 for electronic delivery. Usually your transcript is delivered in less than 24 hrs. Sometimes faster. There are two electronic delivery methods: >>Secure PDF via email- sent to a specific email address. You can use this method to send to a person, office or other institution. The PDF will be sent to the email address you provide on the order. Please make sure the email address and name you enter are correct. Incorrect email addresses will result in the transcript not being delivered or sent to the wrong address (charges still apply). >>Electronic Transcript Exchange “ETX” : This method is best for college admissions programs that participate in the ETX system. Using ETX delivery will send a transcript to the specific admission inbox of the program that you are applying. Be aware that some universities have more than one ETX inbox. For example: Undergraduate Admissions, Graduate Admissions and the Office of the Registrar might have different ETX inboxes. Choose your destination carefully or your transcript will go to the wrong department (charges still apply if sent to the wrong destination). 2) Paper transcripts printed and mailed : Paper transcripts will be printed and mailed to the address you provide. Its takes 1-2 business days to print, package and send to shipping. Shipping time varies depending on the destination and method you chose (options below). When possible, we recommend using the secure electronic transcript service. You have two choices for delivery of paper transcripts: >>First Class Mail : Orders placed Monday-Friday and processed before 3:30 PM ET will be mailed the next business day. This option is free. >>Express Mail Orders : Express orders placed Monday-Friday and processed before 12:30 PM ET will be mailed the same day for delivery the next business day. Express orders processed Monday-Friday after 1pm ET will be mailed the next day (Monday-Saturday) for delivery the next business day. This option is $41.90 >>Certified Mail Delivery Option: Sent via US. Mail and may take 5-7 business days for delivery. Signature by the recipient is required for the transcript to be delivered successfully. This option is $14.90 >>International Mail Delivery Option : Sent via US Mail and may take 21 days for delivery. No tracking available with this delivery method. This option is $7.90 Note : Orders are not mailed on Sundays and US Postal Service holidays. Course Descriptions How do I request a Course Description? Course descriptions dating from 2009 to current year are readily available. Students who wish to receive copies of official course descriptions prior to 2009 may fill out the Course Description Request Form and submit it to the Registrar’s Office in one of the following ways: Email: Registrar@umb.edu Fax: 617.287.6242 Please allow 4-5 business days for processing. If the course(s) were taken prior to 1982, or through Boston State College, please allow 7-10 business days for processing. Is a course description the same as a syllabus? No. A course description is a brief overview or statement that informs students of the subject matter and breadth of a course. These descriptions are found within course catalogs to assist students during enrollment periods. A syllabus is the detailed, structured outline of a course that is usually composed by the instructor or department of said course, and distributed at the start of each semester.  Please note: The Registrar’s office does not archive syllabi. If a syllabus is required, please contact the department directly . Enrollment/Degree Verifications Enrollment Verification Student Inquiry UMass Students can request Enrollment Verifications  through their WISER account. Instructions are outlined here: Enrollment Verification tutorial If you have a special enrollment verification that requires additional information please email get.records@umb.edu for next steps. Enrollment Verification 3rd Party Inquiries UMass Boston has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse to provide enrollment and degree verifications. The National Student Clearinghouse can be contacted at: http://www.degreeverify.org Phone: 703.742.4200 Mail: National Student Clearinghouse 2300 Dulles Station Boulevard, Suite 300 Herndon, VA 20171 Degree Verification Official transcripts are the university's official certifying document. You may order a transcript from the National Student Clearinghouse website You may also use a copy of your diploma which can be ordered through our Alumni & Friends Office Diploma Request Form . If you have a Certified Electronic Diploma (May 2020 and beyond) visit our Credential Validation page. Apostille Services Please use the Certified Electronic Diploma An Apostille may neither be required nor necessary. The CeDiploma has legal standing, is non-repudiating, and can be validated here to provide absolute confidence in the credential’s authenticity. Please contact get.records@umb.edu for more information Certification of Education, School of Psychology or Nursing Licensure The Registrar’s Office can provide an enrollment or degree verification through the National Student Clearinghouse . Students who need licensure certification for Education, School of Psychology, or Nursing please see the contacts below: For Education Licensure please email our Licensure Officer Aimee D’Avignon in the College of Education & Human Development at Aimee.Davignon@umb.edu For Counselor &School Psychology MS/PhD Licensure Certification please email: Mel.CollierMeek@umb.edu Dept of Counseling & School Psychology Board of Registered Nursing Licensure : Nursing, MS please email Mastersnursing@umb.edu Nursing, DNP please email dnp@umb.edu Nursing, PhD please email phdnursing@umb.edu Post Masters Nursing Certificate please email: Postmasternp@umb.edu Certification of clinical, internship, practicum hours The Registrar’s Office can only verify courses taken at the university that appear on your UMass Boston transcript. Students who need further verification of work completed, hours worked, or internship placements need to contact the department who approved the hours or work. Graduate Students can find a list departmental email and phone numbers here. Undergraduate Students can find a list of Departmental Chairs and Administrations here. Enrollment Status . Undergraduate 12+ credits Full Time Undergraduate 9-11 credits Three Quarter Time Undergraduate 6-8 credits Half Time Undergraduate 1-5 credits Less Than Half Time Graduate 9+ credits Full Time Graduate 6-8 credits Half Time Graduate 1-5 credits Less Than Half Time Graduate Program Fee* Less Than Half Time, unless approved by GPD* * Graduate Program Fee: All students registered for the program fee (CAS 600) will NOT be reported to the National Student Clearing House unless we are notified by their Graduate Program Directors (GPD) that they are working on at least a half time basis. Official signed departmental memos are submitted by the GPD to get.records@umb.edu Fall semester full-time memos should be submitted no later than July 31st, Spring semester full-time memos should be submitted no later than November 30th.  This allows the Registrar’s Office proper time to code the student record as meeting at least half time enrollment status enabling the student’s record to be picked up by the Clearinghouse to eliminate loan deferment issues. Registrar Campus Center, 4th Floor UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 registrar@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6200 Fax: 617.287.6242 get.records@umb.edu UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms