Rules - UMass Boston honeypot link Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UMass Toggle Main Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Visit UMass Boston Financial Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Academics Academics Overview Majors & Programs Online Learning Colleges & Schools Advising Academic Calendar Healey Library Global Programs Study Abroad Fellowships Campus Life Campus Life Overview Student Groups & Activities Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusion Safety & Security Orientation & New Students Events Research Research Overview Community-Driven Research Recognizing Excellence Student Research Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Research & Sponsored Programs About About Overview Leadership & Administration Mission & Vision Facts & Figures Accreditation & Rankings History of UMass Boston Student Consumer Information News Athletics Athletics Overview Recreation at UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Toggle Search Search UMass Boston Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Home Makerspace About Us Rules Menu menu Menu 3D Printing About Us Equipment Rules Contact Us Rules We ask that you follow the rules as laid out below. We are happy to provide all our services free of charge to all students, faculty, and staff at UMass Boston. To reiterate: we don’t charge for any use of the lab or equipment, nor for the materials or time used to print something. However, the MakerSpace is for learning and is not intended to be used for large-scale production. MakerSpace supervisors reserve the right to reject print requests or ask you to provide your own materials or make other arrangements if you are printing more than we can support. Please don’t be afraid of this limitation, and instead consider this a challenge! If you are concerned that your project will require above average printing resources, please contact us and we will be happy to work with you to plan. The MakerSpace, and our services and equipment are provided “as is”, with no implied warranty or guarantee of availability or use. Our facility is a place of learning and exploration, not a professional production facility. If you have a project with critical expectations for timing or precision, you should contact us to discuss if it's something we can feasibly assist with, or alternately look into some of the commercial MakerSpace facilities in the area or online . It is absolutely forbidden to use the MakerSpace for the following types of items: Any kind of weapon, weapon-accessory, realistic weapon replica. Any offensive item. Anything that violates copyright or patents. Anything intended to be used for illegal purposes. Anything against the UMass Boston Student Code of Conduct. MakerSpace management reserves the right to interpret these rules and refuse client's work on a case by case basis. (Though we hope we never have to!) Do not use equipment without first working with MakerSpace staff to fully understand their use, and get approval to do so. When you are finished your work, clean up your work area and return the equipment to its original state. Be Creative – Respect the rules – explore, inquire, engage and most importantly have fun! UMass 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Contact UMass Boston Directory Employment Civil Rights & Title IX Map Safety & Security Transportation Document Converter Website Requests Back To Top Instagram Facebook LinkedIn TikTok YouTube Copyright © University of Massachusetts Boston UMass System Accessibility Statement Privacy & Terms