The access we offer to a world-class education brings students from near and far (136 countries, to be exact). Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Bostons diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aidproviding access to an education thats exceptional and affordable. Our dedicated team of admissions and financial aid professionals understands that navigating the complexities of admissions and financial aid can be overwhelming, which is why we offer personalized support every step of the way. Our goal is to ensure that every student has the information and resources they need to make informed decisions about their education and to create a pathway to success. The access we offer to a world-class education brings students from near and far (136 countries, to be exact). Become a Beacon and pursue your passion in UMass Bostons diverse, supportive environment. Many students across our 200+ undergraduate and graduate programs receive financial aidproviding access to an education thats exceptional and affordable. Our dedicated team of admissions and financial aid professionals understands that navigating the complexities of admissions and financial aid can be overwhelming, which is why we offer personalized support every step of the way. Our goal is to ensure that every student has the information and resources they need to make informed decisions about their education and to create a pathway to success. Join us for a weekend open house this fall! Tour our waterfront campus and see what it's like to be a Beacon. At UMass Boston we serve students of all kinds, at all levelsfrom first years to graduate students, transitioning service members to international students, and beyond. No matter who you are or where youre coming from, youll find support from our admissions counselors. Use the links below to find out more about the application, enrollment, and orientation process. Review application requirements, explore scholarship opportunities, find important dates, and more. Finish your bachelors degree at UMass Boston. Learn about our transfer application process, scholarships, and how to transfer earned credits. Earn your masters or PhD to advance your careeror upskill in your field with a graduate or professional certificate. Check your programs requirements and deadlines to begin your application. Join students from more than 136 countries in a city known for its history and innovation. Find application information and resources for international students. We are proud to serve our veteran students, offering tailored support services. Learn how to maximize your benefits for earning a degree and access information on our veteran support services. Your next steps include accepting your offer, exploring housing, registering for orientation, and connecting with fellow students. We're here to help you navigate and transition smoothly to UMass Boston. UMass Boston provides affordable tuition and financial aid packages to help you pay for your degree. Find more information about costs and aid opportunities below. Learn more about our school and what it means to be a Beacon. Take a tour online or in person. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Admissions Providing Equal Access to an Exceptional Education Admissions Fall Open House How to Get Started Cost & Financial Aid Financial Aid by the Numbers Choose Your Student Path First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans Admitted Students Visit Us Admissions - UMass Boston Discover limitless possibilities for academic and professional growth through UMass Boston's suite of graduate programs. With a strong emphasis on academic excellence, we offer rigorous and dynamic programs in diverse disciplines such as business, healthcare, social sciences, and humanities. Learn from renowned faculty who are experts in their fields, providing you with a top-notch education that is both relevant and impactful. Experience a vibrant campus community and chart your path to success. Discover limitless possibilities for academic and professional growth through UMass Boston's suite of graduate programs. With a strong emphasis on academic excellence, we offer rigorous and dynamic programs in diverse disciplines such as business, healthcare, social sciences, and humanities. Learn from renowned faculty who are experts in their fields, providing you with a top-notch education that is both relevant and impactful. Experience a vibrant campus community and chart your path to success. Choose from 100+ specialized graduate programs at UMass Boston in business, education, health sciences, humanities, social sciences, and STEM. Gain the knowledge, skills, and practical experience to excel in your field and career. Explore the following key statistics and gain valuable insights into our programs, enrollment figures, and student success rates. Apply to UMass Boston and take the first step toward an exceptional education that aligns with your aspirations. Explore our programs, learn about cost and financial aid options, and start your application today. UMass Boston offers a dynamic college experience in the historic and innovative City of Boston. Our students engage in groundbreaking projects and benefit from a diverse and inclusive community. With 200+ academic programs, renowned faculty, and generous financial aid options, UMass Boston provides a quality education that's affordable and valuablepreparing students for success in a global society. Affordable tuition and robust financial aid options make UMass Boston an excellent choice for graduate students. We offer competitive tuition rates and a range of financial aid options, including scholarships, grants, and assistantships. Our goal is to ensure that finances are not a barrier to your academic success. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Graduate Students Empower Your Future Graduate Students Diverse & Innovative Programs Get the Facts Your Path to Success Why UMass Boston? Invest in Your Future Next Steps Graduate Students - UMass Boston We are committed to education for a democratic, inclusive, sustainable, and just world. At UMass Boston, students rise to meet today's challenges, aiming to make a difference in areas such as racial justice, climate change, and health equity. Ranked among the top public research universities, we continue to drive progress forward through groundbreaking research. With a deep connection to Boston, our campus serves as an economic catalyst and a hub for impactful scholarship in fields like biotechnology and data science. As the most diverse university campus in New Englandand the third most diverse in the countrywe embrace equality and inclusion, fostering a community where students learn from each other's diverse experiences. We are committed to education for a democratic, inclusive, sustainable, and just world. At UMass Boston, students rise to meet today's challenges, aiming to make a difference in areas such as racial justice, climate change, and health equity. Ranked among the top public research universities, we continue to drive progress forward through groundbreaking research. With a deep connection to Boston, our campus serves as an economic catalyst and a hub for impactful scholarship in fields like biotechnology and data science. As the most diverse university campus in New Englandand the third most diverse in the countrywe embrace equality and inclusion, fostering a community where students learn from each other's diverse experiences. Join us for a weekend open house this fall! Tour our waterfront campus and see what it's like to be a Beacon. Schedule an in-person tour of UMass Boston's campus to experience the vibrant community firsthand. Connect with our admissions counselors and current students to discover if UMass Boston is the right fit for you. Our admission counselors will be at your high school, local college fair, and nearby coffee shops. Interested in speaking one-on-one with an admissions counselor? Schedule a 15- or 30-minute phone or Zoom chat to get your questions answered. Join us in person on campus for an Open House to find out more about UMass Boston UMass Boston offers a dynamic college experience in the historic and innovative City of Boston. Our students engage in groundbreaking projects and benefit from a diverse and inclusive community. With 200+ academic programs, renowned faculty, and generous financial aid options, UMass Boston provides a quality education that's affordable and valuablepreparing students for success in a global society. Apply to UMass Boston and take the first step toward an exceptional education that aligns with your aspirations. Explore our programs, learn about cost and financial aid options, and connect with a counselor who can guide you through the admissions process and help you make informed decisions. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston First-Year Students A University for the Times First-Year Students Fall Open House Experience UMass Boston Why UMass Boston? Your Path to Success In-Person Campus Tours Virtual Admissions Info Session Were Visiting You! Connect with Your Counselor Open House Next Steps First-Year Students - UMass Boston Let's connect! Submit the form corresponding to your student type to join our Admissions email list and learn about UMass Boston events and opportunities. Switch to Graduate Student Form >> 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Request Info Undergraduate Request Info Graduate Request Info Request Info - UMass Boston The truth is, youre only just getting started. Youve got an exciting journey ahead, filled with all kinds of opportunities. Like researching more effective ways to protect the Boston Harbor against climate change. Tracing the historical roots of school segregation in Washington D.C. Studying female self-portraiture through a feminist lens. Whatever question, problem, or practice ignites you, we will be here to fuel the fire. Thats what Beacons do. The truth is, youre only just getting started. Youve got an exciting journey ahead, filled with all kinds of opportunities. Like researching more effective ways to protect the Boston Harbor against climate change. Tracing the historical roots of school segregation in Washington D.C. Studying female self-portraiture through a feminist lens. Whatever question, problem, or practice ignites you, we will be here to fuel the fire. Thats what Beacons do. We were built out of unique times for unique times. Our campus reflects our diverse, complex world. And we've made it our unwavering commitment to bring education to all. Because that's what Beacons do. We bring knowledge and light to where there is not. We see progress in potential, and potential in progress. You're on your way, but there are a few important next steps to becoming a part of the UMass Boston community. Lets make it official. Let us know youre coming. Get to know all the ins and outs of this amazing campus and community. Stay on track! We've compiled all your important next steps here. There's an energy to this place that's hard to explain. Always alive, active, in motion. Students from all over the U.S. and the world. Unparalleled research opportunities. Over 100 clubs and students orgs. And 120+ acres overlooking the Boston Harbor. We cant wait for you to be part of it. Until then, we invite you to learn more about usthere's a lot to take in. Find what lights your fire. Whatever youre into, weve got you covered. Your guide to all things financial aid and beyond. Beacon Gateway is the admissions portal for accepted students. Here, you can submit your New Student Deposit and Housing Reservation Fee, register for Orientation, complete health forms, sign up for placement exams, and more. Please note: on-campus housing is prioritized for full-time first-year students. Visit our campus to experience UMass Boston's vibrant atmosphere and rich opportunities. Immerse yourself in our diverse community and envision yourself as a part of the Beacon community. Schedule an in-person tour of UMass Boston's campus to experience the vibrant community firsthand. Interested in speaking one-on-one with an admissions counselor? Schedule a 15- or 30-minute phone or Zoom chat to get your questions answered. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Admitted Students We are Beacons. Now, you're one too. Admitted Students We Are UMass Boston Here's what happens next. A community unlike any other. Beacon Gateway is the hub for all your next steps! Experience UMass Boston Submit Your Deposit Sign Up for Orientation Admitted Student Checklist 100+ Programs of Study 100+ Clubs & Student Groups A One-Stop Solutions Spot In-Person Campus Tours Connect with Your Counselor Admitted Students - UMass Boston Parents and families are a big part of student success at UMass Boston. As the parent or family member of a UMass Boston student, you are an important member of our community. We deeply appreciate the role that you have played and will continue to play in your students success. It is our desire to support you in reaching our common goal: success for the student. You probably have many questions, including how to navigate campus, pay tuition, and stay on top of campus calendars and policies. You may also be thinking about how this new transition will affect your relationship with your student. Family Programs is here to assist with the transition. Join the Beacon Family Hub Please feel free to email us at family@umb.edu any time you have a question or need assistance. Our goal is to help you support your student as they navigate the college experience from the first day to graduation. Parents and families are a big part of student success at UMass Boston. As the parent or family member of a UMass Boston student, you are an important member of our community. We deeply appreciate the role that you have played and will continue to play in your students success. It is our desire to support you in reaching our common goal: success for the student. You probably have many questions, including how to navigate campus, pay tuition, and stay on top of campus calendars and policies. You may also be thinking about how this new transition will affect your relationship with your student. Family Programs is here to assist with the transition. Join the Beacon Family Hub Please feel free to email us at family@umb.edu any time you have a question or need assistance. Our goal is to help you support your student as they navigate the college experience from the first day to graduation. The UMass Boston Parent and Family Association is committed to strengthening the partnership between the university and parents and families as well as enhancing the parent and student experience. Programs and activities are focused on engaging all interested parents of the university that parallel and support the mission and goals of UMass Boston. All parents and families of current students are welcome to join the UMass Boston Parent and Family Association. Emphasizing the significance of deadlines, ensure your student follows crucial dates, including the November 1st Early Action deadline for the fall semester. Our staff is bound by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). When a student reaches the age of 18, or begins attending a post-secondary institution regardless of age, FERPA rights transfer to the student. Therefore, with the exception of a crisis situation, the Dean of Students Office shares information about student concerns only on a need-to-know basis to the extent permitted by FERPA. There are three ways you may legally receive access to your students education records: Join the Beacon Family Hub to stay up to date with campus events, resources, and relevant information for UMass Boston parents and families. This supporter portal also sends email newsletters at the frequency of your choice featuring updates on Academic Support Services, Financial Aid, Housing, Student Health Services, and more. Sign up for the Beacon Family Hub. Hosted in the fall semester, we invite parents and families back to campus to reconnect with your student and connect with the rest of the campus community. Information about the schedule of events and how to register will be posted on the Beacon Family Hub. Knowing what your student is experiencing during college and what questions to ask are just some of the helpful pieces of advice that parents and families can receive at Parent and Family Orientation. The Parent and Family Orientation program includes sessions that will describe many of the opportunities and challenges new students face when they begin their college experience and how their families can support them. Information sessions will cover topics such as: All programs will provide plenty of opportunities to have all of your questions and concerns addressed before you leave campus. At this time, Parent and Family Orientation is only available for parents and family members of new first-year students. The program coincides with the first day of your students program. To attend the Parent and Family Orientation, your student must register you through their myUMB portal when they select their orientation day. If you decide to attend after your student registered, your student may log back into their portal and register you at any time within 48 business hours of their orientation session. Before attending orientation, there are many things that your student will need to do. We ask that you help us empower them to master their checklist. First-year students can find their steps here and transfer students can find their steps here. If you are joining us at orientation, check-in will begin at 9:00am and the day will conclude around 5:30pm. Your student will be emailed with more specific information, including parking options, prior to your orientation. We encourage you to have a conversation with your student about the orientation day! 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston University Resources Navigating College Together University Resources Parent & Family Association Review Application Deadlines Tuition, Financial Aid & Merit Scholarships College Services & Information Information for Parents & Families FERPA Beacon Family Hub Family Weekend Parent and Family Orientation Parents - UMass Boston Northeast students now save more than $10,500 off the cost of out-of-state tuition. We're proud to offer our regional neighbors from New England, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania reduced tuition through the Northeast Regional Tuition Break Program. For years, UMass Boston has offered qualifying New England students discounted tuition rates through the New England Board of Higher Educations Tuition Break program. As of the fall 2025 semester, we are pleased to extend the regional tuition break of more than $10,500 off the out-of-state tuition rate to new students who are residents of New York, New Jersey or Pennsylvania. Along with our generous financial aid and merit scholarships, the Northeast Regional Tuition Break puts a world-class education within your reach. Global Aging, Accelerated Nursing, and RN to BS programs are not eligible for the Northeast Regional Student Program. Must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident to qualify. Students must be an established resident of Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont, Connecticut, New Jersey, New York or Pennsylvania to qualify. New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania students enrolled prior to fall 2025 do not qualify for tuition break. For more information contact Undergraduate Admissions at undergrad.admissions@umb.edu 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu The Northeast Regional Tuition Break Program Northeast Regional Tuition Break - UMass Boston We are committed to education for a democratic, inclusive, sustainable, and just world. At UMass Boston, students rise to meet today's challenges, aiming to make a difference in areas such as racial justice, climate change, and health equity. Ranked among the top public research universities, we continue to drive progress forward through groundbreaking research. With a deep connection to Boston, our campus serves as an economic catalyst and a hub for impactful scholarship in fields like biotechnology and data science. As the most diverse university campus in New Englandand the third most diverse in the countrywe embrace equality and inclusion, fostering a community where students learn from each other's diverse experiences. We are committed to education for a democratic, inclusive, sustainable, and just world. At UMass Boston, students rise to meet today's challenges, aiming to make a difference in areas such as racial justice, climate change, and health equity. Ranked among the top public research universities, we continue to drive progress forward through groundbreaking research. With a deep connection to Boston, our campus serves as an economic catalyst and a hub for impactful scholarship in fields like biotechnology and data science. As the most diverse university campus in New Englandand the third most diverse in the countrywe embrace equality and inclusion, fostering a community where students learn from each other's diverse experiences. Join us for a weekend open house this fall! Tour our waterfront campus and see what it's like to be a Beacon. Schedule an in-person tour of UMass Boston's campus to experience the vibrant community firsthand. Connect with our admissions counselors and current students to discover if UMass Boston is the right fit for you. Our admission counselors will be at your high school, local college fair, and nearby coffee shops. Interested in speaking one-on-one with an admissions counselor? Schedule a 15- or 30-minute phone or Zoom chat to get your questions answered. Join us in person on campus for an Open House to find out more about UMass Boston UMass Boston offers a dynamic college experience in the historic and innovative City of Boston. Our students engage in groundbreaking projects and benefit from a diverse and inclusive community. With 200+ academic programs, renowned faculty, and generous financial aid options, UMass Boston provides a quality education that's affordable and valuablepreparing students for success in a global society. Apply to UMass Boston and take the first step toward an exceptional education that aligns with your aspirations. Explore our programs, learn about cost and financial aid options, and connect with a counselor who can guide you through the admissions process and help you make informed decisions. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston First-Year Students A University for the Times First-Year Students Fall Open House Experience UMass Boston Why UMass Boston? Your Path to Success In-Person Campus Tours Virtual Admissions Info Session Were Visiting You! Connect with Your Counselor Open House Next Steps First-Year Students - UMass Boston Beacon Gateway is your admissions portal where accepted students submit a New Student Deposit and Housing Reservation Fee*. You can also register for Orientation, submit health forms, sign up for placement exams, and more. *Please note, full-time first-year students are prioritized for on-campus housing. Log into Beacon Gateway 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Beacon Gateway is your hub for all your next steps! Beacon Gateway - UMass Boston Welcome to UMass Boston, where we embrace diversity and celebrate the global community. As an international student, we understand that pursuing higher education in a different country can be an exciting yet challenging journey. That's why our dedicated Admissions team is here to support and guide you every step of the way. With a wide range of academic programs, a vibrant campus life, and a commitment to cultural exchange, UMass Boston offers an inclusive and enriching environment for international students. Whether you're seeking undergraduate or graduate studies, we invite you to embark on a transformative educational experience and become part of our global network of scholars, leaders, and changemakers. Welcome to UMass Boston, where we embrace diversity and celebrate the global community. As an international student, we understand that pursuing higher education in a different country can be an exciting yet challenging journey. That's why our dedicated Admissions team is here to support and guide you every step of the way. With a wide range of academic programs, a vibrant campus life, and a commitment to cultural exchange, UMass Boston offers an inclusive and enriching environment for international students. Whether you're seeking undergraduate or graduate studies, we invite you to embark on a transformative educational experience and become part of our global network of scholars, leaders, and changemakers. Our International Admissions team is available to provide information about living and learning in Boston, Americas college town. We can also assist with the application process and answer questions. Join the Undergraduate Admissions International Team online to lean more about UMass Boston, the steps for applying and the admissions requirements to join UMass Boston as international student. With 2,400+ students and 300+ scholars from 136 countries, we're thrilled to have you join our vibrant international community. As your go-to resource for immigration matters, we work closely with U.S. governmental agencies to support your journey as an international student or scholar. Our advisers provide assistance with immigration and employment status, guiding you through the intricacies of the system. UMass Boston offers a dynamic college experience in the historic and innovative City of Boston. If you want to study in the most famous college town in the country, we are one of the best values in higher education. More than 2,000 international students from more than 136 countries study here on international visas. Find your community on UMass Boston's 120-acre waterfront campus just minutes from downtown. UMass Boston Rankings & Awards Apply to UMass Boston and take the first step towards an exceptional education that aligns with your aspirations. Explore our programs, learn about cost and financial aid options, and start your application today. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston International Students Learn Here, Live Here. International Students Experience UMass Boston International Students & Scholars Why UMass Boston? By the Numbers Your Path to Success Undergraduate International Student Appointment Undergraduate International Prospective Student Webinar International Students - UMass Boston Transferring to UMass Boston is a seamless process designed to support your academic journey. As a top choice for transfer students, we welcome over 2,000 new transfers annually. Benefit from our generous transfer credit policies, which allow you to apply 70-90 credits towards your bachelor's degree, and explore our comprehensive merit scholarships and financial aid options that make pursuing an excellent and affordable education a reality. Transferring to UMass Boston is a seamless process designed to support your academic journey. As a top choice for transfer students, we welcome over 2,000 new transfers annually. Benefit from our generous transfer credit policies, which allow you to apply 70-90 credits towards your bachelor's degree, and explore our comprehensive merit scholarships and financial aid options that make pursuing an excellent and affordable education a reality. Schedule an in-person tour of UMass Boston's campus to experience the vibrant community firsthand. Tuesdays, 4 p.m. Learn more about academic programs, transfer credits, and the application process. Transferring to a new school is exciting! Let us make this transition easier by meeting one-on-one with a Transfer Counselor at a time that best works for you. We make transferring credits easy! Learn how credit is evaluated, how it may apply to your degree, and resources to know how your credit will transfer. Meet one-on-one with a transfer counselor and see how your courses fit into a UMass Boston degree. There are multiple pathways to a Bachelors of Science in Nursing. Join an information session to learn more about the Traditional BSN, RN to BSN, and Accelerated BSN programs. Recurring monthly. Join transfer counselors as they go over everything you need to know about applying, including deadlines, application, required documents, and next steps for enrollment. Mondays, 4 p.m. Students transferring from a public Massachusetts community college can simply the process through a program called MassTransfer. Come learn about the benefits and how to participate! Our generous transfer credit policies allow you to apply up to 90 credits towards your bachelor's degree, ensuring a smooth transition and efficient progress towards graduation. Apply to UMass Boston and take the first step towards an exceptional education that aligns with your aspirations. Explore our programs, learn about cost and financial aid options, and start your application today. With our dedicated support and transfer-friendly policies, you can bring your previous nursing coursework and clinical experiences to accelerate your path towards a Bachelor of Science in Nursing. Transfer Admissions staff will go over everything you need to know about transferring into the traditional Nursing Program. Learn more about our Accelerated Nursing Program for people who already hold a non-nursing bachelor's. Designed for registered nurses who wish to pursue a baccalaureate degree. Join us for a virtual information session to learn more about the program! 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Transfer Students Transfer Made Easy Transfer Students Experience UMass Boston Maximize Your Transfer Credits Your Path to Success Transfer Nursing Students In-Person Campus Tours Virtual Transfer Info Session Transfer Student Appointments Transfer Credit 101 Session Unofficial Transfer Credit Appointments Nursing Information Sessions Virtual Transfer Application Workshop MassTransfer Info Session Virtual Traditional Nursing Info Sessions Virtual Accelerated Nursing Info Sessions RN-BS Information Sessions Next Steps Transfer Students - UMass Boston The University of Massachusetts Boston is the most diverse university in New England and offers a welcoming college community. We encourage all students, regardless of citizenship status or country of origin, to apply for admission to the university. We encourage students to review the information below to learn more about the application process and financial resources available for undocumented students. In July 2023, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts passed the High School Completers Tuition Equity Law, expanding access to in-state tuition and state financial aid for students who have attended high school in Massachusetts and obtained a high school diploma or equivalent in Massachusetts. The Tuition Equity Law provides a pathway for certain non-US citizen students, including undocumented students, to access in-state tuition and state financial aid. To quality, students must: For Frequently Asked Questions on the Tuition Equity Law, please visit this website. For Frequently Asked Questions on the Tuition Equity Law, please visit this website. Students who meet the criteria outlined by the Tuition Equity Law will be eligible to be considered for the following: TheDream.US is the nation's largest college access and success program for undocumented immigrant students. With no access to federal and limited access to state financial aid, staff at TheDream.US work with a community of partners to provide Dreamers an opportunity to obtain a college education by providing financial resources to make these students dreams a reality. In doing so, the scholarship program helps to address barriers and challenges facing undocumented students by providing them with funding to make up for the gap caused by a lack of federal financial aid resources. These scholarships are for highly-motivated undocumented students who want to get a college education but are unable to afford the cost. UMass Boston students may qualify to receive The National Scholarship, which is for first-time, current, or previously enrolled college students. Students should apply on the organizations website. To qualify, students need to be undocumented or have DACA or TPS status, have significant unmet financial need, have graduated from a U.S. High School before Fall 2024, have a GPA of 2.5 or higher, be eligible for in-state tuition, and intend to enroll full-time in a bachelors degree. Scholarship funds may total up to $8,250 per academic year for each student. Learn More TheDream.US Scholarship UMass Boston Scholarships TheDream.US is the nation's largest college access and success program for undocumented immigrant students. With no access to federal and limited access to state financial aid, staff at TheDream.US work with a community of partners to provide Dreamers an opportunity to obtain a college education by providing financial resources to make these students dreams a reality. In doing so, the scholarship program helps to address barriers and challenges facing undocumented students by providing them with funding to make up for the gap caused by a lack of federal financial aid resources. These scholarships are for highly-motivated undocumented students who want to get a college education but are unable to afford the cost. UMass Boston students may qualify to receive The National Scholarship, which is for first-time, current, or previously enrolled college students. Students should apply on the organizations website. To qualify, students need to be undocumented or have DACA or TPS status, have significant unmet financial need, have graduated from a U.S. High School before Fall 2024, have a GPA of 2.5 or higher, be eligible for in-state tuition, and intend to enroll full-time in a bachelors degree. Scholarship funds may total up to $8,250 per academic year for each student. Learn More Students are encouraged to apply online using either the Common Application or UMass Bostons online application. When completing the application students should indicate that they are a non-U.S. citizen and a Massachusetts resident. Students are encouraged to apply online using either the Common Application or UMass Bostons online application. When completing the application students should indicate that they are a non-U.S. citizen and a Massachusetts resident. Contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions by phone at 617.287.6100 or by email so we can assist you with the process. Admissions Counselors are also available for individual appointments throughout the college application process. Contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions by phone at 617.287.6100 or by email so we can assist you with the process. Admissions Counselors are also available for individual appointments throughout the college application process. Additional Undocumented Student Resources The Office of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Undocumented Student Resources Tuition Equity Law & In-State Tuition Benefit Current Students Enrolled Prior to Fall 2024 New Students Enrolling Fall 2024 or Beyond Financing Your Education TheDream.US Scholarship Apply for Admission Contact Us Campus Resources DACA & Undocumented - UMass Boston Apply online by submitting either the UMass Boston Application or the Common Application. Apply online for a graduate program by submitting the UMass Boston Application. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Apply to UMass Boston Undergraduate Applicants UMass Boston Application Common Application Graduate Applicants Graduate Application Apply - UMass Boston Experience UMass Boston firsthand by visiting our campus. Discover the dynamic community, state-of-the-art facilities, and engaging academic programs that make UMass Boston a top choice for students. Join us for a campus tour, explore our beautiful waterfront location, and meet our faculty and staff who are dedicated to your success. Plan your visit to UMass Boston today and take the first step towards an exceptional educational journey. During your visit, get a taste of student life through student-led tours, campus events, and dining options. Don't miss the opportunity to explore our modern classrooms, research labs, and collaborative spaces designed to foster innovation and academic excellence. Schedule an in-person tour of UMass Boston's campus to experience the vibrant community firsthand. Connect with our admissions counselors and current students to discover if UMass Boston is the right fit for you. Attend an event designed specifically for transfer students. Both virtual and on-campus options! Schedule an in-person tour designed for graduate students and connect with faculty and staff in an online info session. Experience UMass Boston through the eyes of our students. Watch our episode of the Amazon Prime show The College Tour. Go Beacons! Navigate your way to UMass Boston with ease by accessing our directions page, which provides detailed instructions on how to reach our campus. Find the perfect accommodation for your stay by exploring our recommended hotels in the area. If you're planning a group visit, we're here to assist you. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Explore Our Campus Experience UMass Boston The College Tour Plan Your Visit Undergraduate In-Person Campus Tours Online Admissions Info Session Transfer Events Graduate Student Events Next Steps Visit UMass Boston - UMass Boston Discover limitless possibilities for academic and professional growth through UMass Boston's suite of graduate programs. With a strong emphasis on academic excellence, we offer rigorous and dynamic programs in diverse disciplines such as business, healthcare, social sciences, and humanities. Learn from renowned faculty who are experts in their fields, providing you with a top-notch education that is both relevant and impactful. Experience a vibrant campus community and chart your path to success. Discover limitless possibilities for academic and professional growth through UMass Boston's suite of graduate programs. With a strong emphasis on academic excellence, we offer rigorous and dynamic programs in diverse disciplines such as business, healthcare, social sciences, and humanities. Learn from renowned faculty who are experts in their fields, providing you with a top-notch education that is both relevant and impactful. Experience a vibrant campus community and chart your path to success. Choose from 100+ specialized graduate programs at UMass Boston in business, education, health sciences, humanities, social sciences, and STEM. Gain the knowledge, skills, and practical experience to excel in your field and career. Explore the following key statistics and gain valuable insights into our programs, enrollment figures, and student success rates. Apply to UMass Boston and take the first step toward an exceptional education that aligns with your aspirations. Explore our programs, learn about cost and financial aid options, and start your application today. UMass Boston offers a dynamic college experience in the historic and innovative City of Boston. Our students engage in groundbreaking projects and benefit from a diverse and inclusive community. With 200+ academic programs, renowned faculty, and generous financial aid options, UMass Boston provides a quality education that's affordable and valuablepreparing students for success in a global society. Affordable tuition and robust financial aid options make UMass Boston an excellent choice for graduate students. We offer competitive tuition rates and a range of financial aid options, including scholarships, grants, and assistantships. Our goal is to ensure that finances are not a barrier to your academic success. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Graduate Students Empower Your Future Graduate Students Diverse & Innovative Programs Get the Facts Your Path to Success Why UMass Boston? Invest in Your Future Next Steps Graduate Students - UMass Boston Title: Admissions Counselor Office: Campus Center, UL, 300.20 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6417 Title: Asst Dir-Transfer Recruitment Office: Campus Center, UL, UL300.22 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6113 Title: Asst Dir, First-Yr Recruitment Office: Campus Center, UL, U307 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6194 Title: Systems Support Specialist Office: Campus Center, 04, 04006 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6436 Title: Sr Assoc Dir, Xfer Admissions Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Professional - Hourly Department: Graduate Studies & Admissions Title: Asst Dir, First-Yr Recruitment Office: Campus Center, UL, UL300.08 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6171 Title: Director of Grad Admissions Department: Graduate Admissions Title: Administrative Assistant I Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Administrative Assistant II Office: Campus Center, UL, 300.09 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6002 Title: Administrative Assistant II Office: Campus Center, UL, UL302 Department: Graduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6403 Title: Processing Specialist Office: Campus Center, UL, 30004 Department: Graduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6421 Title: Asst Dir/Transfer Recruitment Office: Campus Center, UL, U300.24 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6126 Title: Director of Admissions Department: Graduate Admissions Title: Professional - Hourly Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Asst Dir-Transfer Recruitment Office: Campus Center, UL, 300.20 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6119 Title: Admissions Counselor Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Professional - Hourly Office: Campus Center, UL, U300.02 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.3214 Title: Sr Assoc Dir, Sys & Admin Ops Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Asst Dir, Transfer Recruitment Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Professional - Hourly Office: Campus Center, UL, 30010 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6170 Title: Professional - Hourly Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Processing Specialist Office: Campus Center, UL, U300.09 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6012 Title: Administrative Assistant I Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Senior Statistician Office: Healey Library, 05, 00001 Department: Graduate Studies & Admissions Phone: 617.287.5241 Title: Departmental Assistant -Hourly Department: Graduate Studies & Admissions Title: Accountant III Office: Quinn Administration, 01, 00001 Department: Graduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6437 Title: Dir, Finance & Administration Department: Graduate Studies & Admissions Title: Asst. Dean-Graduate Studies Office: Campus Center, 02, 02015 Department: Graduate Studies & Admissions Phone: 617.287.7912 Title: Asst Dir, First-Yr Recruitment Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Administrative Assistant I Office: Campus Center, UL, 30007 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6045 Title: Exec Dir, Strat Enroll Init Office: Campus Center, 04, 40142 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6075 Title: Assoc Dir, Enrollment CRM Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Sr. Assistant Director Office: Campus Center, UL, 30018 Department: Graduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6408 Title: Admissions Counselor Office: Campus Center, UL, 300.13 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6114 Title: Coor, TsfrCred & TrsfrPathways Office: Campus Center, UL, UL3023 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6141 Title: Admissions Counselor Office: Campus Center, UL, UL300.08 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6171 Title: Asst Dir Intn'l Admissions Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Enrollment Communications Spec Office: Campus Center, 04, 4100.2B Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6105 Title: Professional - Hourly Office: Campus Center, 02, 02015 Department: Graduate Studies & Admissions Phone: 617.287.7879 Title: Assoc Dir, Events & Visit Exp Office: Campus Center, UL, U0314 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6106 Title: Asst Dir, Graduate Admissions Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Administrative Assistant I Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Sr. Assoc Dir. Ugrd Admission Office: Campus Center, UL, UL312 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.3449 Title: Professional - Hourly Office: Campus Center, 2, 2014 Department: Graduate Studies & Admissions Phone: 617.287.5594 Title: Asst Dir Intn'l Admissions Office: Campus Center, UL, UL3003 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6176 Title: Sr. Asst Dir, Regional Recruit Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Senior Processing Specialist Office: Campus Center, UL, 30015 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6112 Title: Administrative Assistant I Office: Campus Center, UL, 30005 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6046 Title: Processing Specialist Office: Campus Center, UL, 30001 Department: Graduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6410 Title: Sr. Asst Dir, Regional Recruit Department: Undergraduate Admissions Title: Sr Asst Dir, Intn'l Admissions Office: Campus Center, UL, UL306 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6128 Title: Transfer Enrollment Counselor Office: Campus Center, UL, U300.19 Department: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6218 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Meet the Admissions Team Meet the Admissions Team - UMass Boston Put your GI Bill* benefits to work at UMass Boston, where we are dedicated to supporting our veteran students. As a six-time Military Friendly School, we take pride in our commitment to providing a welcoming and inclusive environment for those who have served our country. With a proud tradition of distributing $4 million in GI benefits every year, we ensure that your hard-earned benefits are maximized to their fullest potential. When you enroll at UMass Boston, you'll join a community of over 600 veterans who have found a home within our Beacon community, where camaraderie and support abound. Below, you'll find detailed information about the admissions process specifically tailored to veterans, along with the comprehensive support services and resources we offer to help you succeed academically and personally. Put your GI Bill* benefits to work at UMass Boston, where we are dedicated to supporting our veteran students. As a six-time Military Friendly School, we take pride in our commitment to providing a welcoming and inclusive environment for those who have served our country. With a proud tradition of distributing $4 million in GI benefits every year, we ensure that your hard-earned benefits are maximized to their fullest potential. When you enroll at UMass Boston, you'll join a community of over 600 veterans who have found a home within our Beacon community, where camaraderie and support abound. Below, you'll find detailed information about the admissions process specifically tailored to veterans, along with the comprehensive support services and resources we offer to help you succeed academically and personally. Veteran Affairs staff are available to speak to prospective students and dependents regarding benefits and becoming a UMass Boston student. Schedule an in-person tour of UMass Boston's campus to experience the vibrant community firsthand. Hear from our veteran students themselves as they share their experiences. Have questions about the admissions process? Want to learn about your military benefits? Schedule an online meeting with Veterans Affairs. Learn about and access your financial benefits. Veterans Affairs will assist you with the education benefits process. Discover the stories of other transitioning service members who found a home and a community at UMass Boston. Our veteran staff supports students academic success and provides assistance with military transfer credits, financial and benefit information, as well as professional networking. Our veteran staff supports students academic success and provides assistance with military transfer credits, financial and benefit information, as well as professional networking. At UMass Boston we are dedicated to serving the more than 600 veterans enrolled at the University. Made possible by our partners at the Satter Foundation, the Center includes support and resources to help our veterans and their family members succeed. At UMass Boston we are dedicated to serving the more than 600 veterans enrolled at the University. Made possible by our partners at the Satter Foundation, the Center includes support and resources to help our veterans and their family members succeed. The institute aims to create equitable policies that promote the safety and success of veterans and their dependents. The institute aims to create equitable policies that promote the safety and success of veterans and their dependents. Run by students, the Center provides a wide range of resources and information on veteran issues. Dedicated to serving veterans and their dependents by providing unparalleled service to the more than 600 veterans are enrolled at the University. Within it, our Student Veterans Center is a student-run center providing a wide range of resources and information on veteran issues and supporting the UMass Boston veteran student population. Contact Us Student Veteran Center 10 Floor, Healey Library, Room 10-27A veterans.center@umb.edu | 617.287.7985 Resources & Support - UMass Boston (umb.edu) Run by students, the Center provides a wide range of resources and information on veteran issues. Dedicated to serving veterans and their dependents by providing unparalleled service to the more than 600 veterans are enrolled at the University. Within it, our Student Veterans Center is a student-run center providing a wide range of resources and information on veteran issues and supporting the UMass Boston veteran student population. Contact Us Student Veteran Center 10 Floor, Healey Library, Room 10-27A veterans.center@umb.edu | 617.287.7985 Resources & Support - UMass Boston (umb.edu) 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Veterans A Military Friendly School: Supporting Our Veteran Students Veterans Experience UMass Boston Our Students Get More Information Resources for Veterans Veteran Student Appointments In-Person Campus Tours Contact Us Financial Benefits Meet our Students & Alumni Veterans Affairs The Center of Excellence for Veterans The William Joiner Institute The Student Veterans Center Next Steps Veterans - UMass Boston The City of Boston is an integral part of your UMass Boston experience, serving as your campus, classroom, and community. Immerse yourself in a dynamic city filled with young professionals, valuable connections, and like-minded college students, all eager to make their mark. Boston stands as a global hub for business, medicine, research, technology, and the arts. Gain exposure to diverse industries, internships, and career prospects while being surrounded by a thriving ecosystem of innovation and creativity. From renowned healthcare institutions to cutting-edge startups, the city offers limitless possibilities to explore and grow. Engage in the vibrant cultural scene, from world-class museums and theaters to lively music venues and art galleries. Immerse yourself in the rich history and charm of Boston's neighborhoods, each with its own unique character and experiences to offer. Follow the story of this country's founding along the Freedom Trail, catch a game at Fenway Park, try the the bnh m sandwich in Dorchester, or explore the murals of Roxbury. Embrace the spirit of collaboration and knowledge-sharing as you navigate through a city teeming with academic institutions, research centers, and industry leaders. The connections you make and the experiences you gain in Boston will shape your personal and professional journey. Boston is not just a backdrop but an active participant in your education, providing unparalleled resources, opportunities, and a supportive community. Seize the chance to thrive in this dynamic and inspiring city, and let Boston be the springboard for your future success. Boston boasts an extensive public transportation system, making it easy for UMass Boston students to navigate the city. The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA), also known as the "T," offers subway, bus, and commuter rail services, providing convenient access to various neighborhoods, attractions, and employment centers. With the T, students can explore the city, attend cultural events, and travel to internships or part-time jobs without the need for a car. Boston boasts an extensive public transportation system, making it easy for UMass Boston students to navigate the city. The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA), also known as the "T," offers subway, bus, and commuter rail services, providing convenient access to various neighborhoods, attractions, and employment centers. With the T, students can explore the city, attend cultural events, and travel to internships or part-time jobs without the need for a car. Located in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, the Columbia Point peninsula is home to UMass Boston's scenic waterfront campus, offering stunning views of the harbor and city skyline. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum The John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum, located on Columbia Point, offers visitors a chance to explore the life and legacy of President Kennedy through engaging exhibits and artifacts. Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate The nearby Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate provides a unique opportunity to learn about the legislative process and the history of the U.S. Senate. Massachusetts Archives The Massachusetts Archives, also situated on Columbia Point, houses valuable historical records and documents that offer insights into the rich history of the state. Local Destinations Franklin Park Zoo Franklin Park Zoo is a popular destination where visitors can experience a diverse range of animal species and engage in educational activities. Castle Island & Carson Beach Castle Island and Carson Beach offer scenic views, recreational opportunities, and a chance to relax by the water. Sullivan's Sullivan's is a beloved eatery known for its delicious lunch options, snacks, and delectable ice cream treats, making it a must-visit spot for a tasty meal or a refreshing dessert. Located in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, the Columbia Point peninsula is home to UMass Boston's scenic waterfront campus, offering stunning views of the harbor and city skyline. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum The John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum, located on Columbia Point, offers visitors a chance to explore the life and legacy of President Kennedy through engaging exhibits and artifacts. Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate The nearby Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate provides a unique opportunity to learn about the legislative process and the history of the U.S. Senate. Massachusetts Archives The Massachusetts Archives, also situated on Columbia Point, houses valuable historical records and documents that offer insights into the rich history of the state. Franklin Park Zoo Franklin Park Zoo is a popular destination where visitors can experience a diverse range of animal species and engage in educational activities. Castle Island & Carson Beach Castle Island and Carson Beach offer scenic views, recreational opportunities, and a chance to relax by the water. Sullivan's Sullivan's is a beloved eatery known for its delicious lunch options, snacks, and delectable ice cream treats, making it a must-visit spot for a tasty meal or a refreshing dessert. Fenway Park Boston Common Faneuil Hall Museums of Boston The New England Aquarium The North End Boston Tea Party Museum Back Bay Seaport District The Freedom Trail Newbury Street The Boston Symphony Orchestra 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Discover Boston Endless Opportunities in a Thriving City A Cultural Haven & Historical Gem An Ecosystem of Innovation & Collaboration Embrace the Boston Experience Public Transportation Our Neighborhood Can't Miss Destinations Boston Americas College Town - UMass Boston Graduate Deferral Form The Deferral Form is to be used by accepted students who have submitted an enrollment deposit and wish to postpone their acceptance to a future semester. Students are allowed to defer once per application for up to one year from their original acceptance date. A student may not defer if attending another college/university. The deadline to defer is the last day of add/drop. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Graduate Forms Graduate Forms - UMass Boston As an admitted student, we're excited to guide you through the final steps before officially joining our vibrant community. Below, you'll find tailored checklists based on your specific pathwaywhether you're a first-year student, transfer student, international student, or part of our Dual Enrollment/Early College DSP Program. These checklists outline the essential tasks you need to complete to ensure a smooth transition and make the most of your UMass Boston experience. From submitting important forms to exploring campus resources, let these checklists be your roadmap to becoming a proud member of the Beacon family. Get ready to embark on an incredible journey of academic and personal growth at UMass Boston! Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston as a first-year student! To help you prepare for your exciting journey as a Beacon, we have created a comprehensive enrollment checklist. This checklist will guide you through the final steps required before joining our vibrant campus community, ensuring that you have a smooth transition and are ready to embark on a successful academic career at UMass Boston. Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston as a first-year student! To help you prepare for your exciting journey as a Beacon, we have created a comprehensive enrollment checklist. This checklist will guide you through the final steps required before joining our vibrant campus community, ensuring that you have a smooth transition and are ready to embark on a successful academic career at UMass Boston. Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston as a transfer student! We understand that your transition to a new university can be both exciting and challenging. To make your transfer process seamless, we have created an enrollment checklist specifically designed for you. This checklist will guide you through the necessary steps to ensure a smooth transition to UMass Boston and help you navigate the final requirements before joining our dynamic community as a proud Beacon. Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston as a transfer student! We understand that your transition to a new university can be both exciting and challenging. To make your transfer process seamless, we have created an enrollment checklist specifically designed for you. This checklist will guide you through the necessary steps to ensure a smooth transition to UMass Boston and help you navigate the final requirements before joining our dynamic community as a proud Beacon. We are delighted to welcome you as an international student to UMass Boston! As you embark on your educational journey in a new country, we want to ensure a smooth transition and provide you with the support you need. Our international student enrollment checklist will guide you through the necessary steps, from visa requirements to orientation programs, ensuring that you have all the information and resources to succeed academically and personally as a member of our diverse Beacon community. We are delighted to welcome you as an international student to UMass Boston! As you embark on your educational journey in a new country, we want to ensure a smooth transition and provide you with the support you need. Our international student enrollment checklist will guide you through the necessary steps, from visa requirements to orientation programs, ensuring that you have all the information and resources to succeed academically and personally as a member of our diverse Beacon community. Welcome to the Directions for Student Potential (DSP) Program at UMass Boston! We are thrilled to have you as part of this unique program designed to support your academic and personal growth. To help you make the most of your DSP experience, we have created a tailored checklist that outlines the important steps and resources available to you. This checklist will guide you through the program requirements and ensure you have a successful journey as a DSP student at UMass Boston. Welcome to the Directions for Student Potential (DSP) Program at UMass Boston! We are thrilled to have you as part of this unique program designed to support your academic and personal growth. To help you make the most of your DSP experience, we have created a tailored checklist that outlines the important steps and resources available to you. This checklist will guide you through the program requirements and ensure you have a successful journey as a DSP student at UMass Boston. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Welcome to UMass Boston, future Beacon! First-Year Enrollment Checklist Transfer Enrollment Checklist International Student Enrollment Checklist DSP Enrollment Checklist Admitted Student Checklist - UMass Boston Change of Major Request Form The Change of Major Request Form can be used by applicants wishing to have their application reviewed for a different major or by accepted students wishing to adjust their major before the end of their initial add/drop period. Submitting this request to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions does not guarantee admission into the selected major. Any change of major requests by students after the add/drop period should be filed with The One Stop in the Campus Center. Undergraduate Deferral Form The Deferral Form is to be used by accepted students who have submitted an enrollment deposit and wish to postpone their acceptance to a future semester. Students are allowed to defer once per application for up to one year from their original acceptance date. A student may not defer if attending another college/university, or if s/he has been accepted by the College of Nursing and Health Sciences. The deadline to defer is the last day of add/drop. Housing Plan Change The Housing Plan Change form is used for newly accepted or referred students who would like to update their Housing Plan in order to ensure the correct housing plan is reflected on their Financial Aid Offer. Please note, to secure on-campus housing, students must submit a housing reservation fee and complete the housing process. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Undergraduate Forms Undergraduate Forms - UMass Boston Congrats again on your admission to UMass Boston! In order to save your spot, please log into the Beacon Gateway and submit your new student deposit. The sooner youre deposited, the sooner you can complete other important next steps. Deposit via Beacon Gateway You did it! To secure your spot at UMass Boston, submit your $250 new student deposit by relevant deadline: This deposit will be applied to your first semester bill. Deposits are refundable by written request to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions only prior to these deadlines. Welcome to UMass Boston! Your deposit is due within 30 days of receiving your acceptance letter. If this occurs after May 1 (fall applicants), please note that your deposit is non-refundable. Congrats! You are exempt from the deposit. Please confirm your intention to enroll in the DSP program and sign up for assessment and orientation. Welcome! Please submit your deposit by the relevant deadline: Need help or have questions about deposits? Don't hesitate to reach out. Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6100 Email: undergrad.admissions@umb.edu Graduate Admissions Phone: 617.287.6400 Email: graduate.admissions@umb.edu 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Save your spot and become a UMass Boston Beacon! Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Directions for Student Potential (DSP) Students Graduate Students Submit Your Deposit - UMass Boston Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston. There are still a few things left to do before you can call yourself a Beacon! Review the list below to be sure you have completed all setps. Contact the Office of Admissions at 617.287.6100 or undergrad.admissions@umb.edu with any questions. All new students must submit a $250 New Student Deposit which will be applied to your first semester tuition bill. Log into Beacon Gateway to submit your deposit. If you believe you may qualify for a New Student Deposit waiver, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. All new students must submit a $250 New Student Deposit which will be applied to your first semester tuition bill. Log into Beacon Gateway to submit your deposit. If you believe you may qualify for a New Student Deposit waiver, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. 24 hours after submitting your New Student Deposit, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: WISER - your UMass Boston student information system which you will access for registration, placement testing, etc. Webmail - your UMass Boston email account 24 hours after submitting your New Student Deposit, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: WISER - your UMass Boston student information system which you will access for registration, placement testing, etc. Webmail - your UMass Boston email account All new students are required to attend New Student Orientation. Orientation is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, register for classes, and familiarize yourself with university resources. After you've submitted your enrollment deposit, log into Beacon Gateway and click on the 'Events' tab to register for your orientation. All new students are required to attend New Student Orientation. Orientation is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, register for classes, and familiarize yourself with university resources. After you've submitted your enrollment deposit, log into Beacon Gateway and click on the 'Events' tab to register for your orientation. Shortly after being admitted you should receive an email from the Office of Undergraduate Admissions notifying you that your official Transfer Credit Evaluation (TCE) is available for review in Beacon Gateway. It's important that you understand your credit evaluation. For more information, watch this quick video demonstrating how to understand your TCE. If you have academic coursework that is in progress, be sure to submit final, official transcripts to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions as soon as possible and prior to your New Student Orientation and advising session. Please send electronic transcripts to transcripts@umb.edu. Mailed transcripts may be sent to the address below: University of Massachusetts Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 William T Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA 02125 Shortly after being admitted you should receive an email from the Office of Undergraduate Admissions notifying you that your official Transfer Credit Evaluation (TCE) is available for review in Beacon Gateway. It's important that you understand your credit evaluation. For more information, watch this quick video demonstrating how to understand your TCE. If you have academic coursework that is in progress, be sure to submit final, official transcripts to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions as soon as possible and prior to your New Student Orientation and advising session. Please send electronic transcripts to transcripts@umb.edu. Mailed transcripts may be sent to the address below: University of Massachusetts Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 William T Morrissey Blvd Boston, MA 02125 Guided Writing Placement All new students will participate in a guided writing assessment, which will result in recommended placements for both composition and other required courses. Please follow these steps to complete your Guided Writing Placement. ALEKS Math Placement The ALEKS math placement exam is required for ALL incoming undergraduate students EXCEPT: Liberal arts students receiving math transfer credit who do not intend to take more math courses. Science students receiving transfer credit for college algebra or pre-calculus with a grade of B or better in the most recent semester, and students transferring in calculus or higher mathematics courses. Management students receiving transfer credit for college algebra with a grade of B or better in the most recent semester, and students transferring in pre-calculus or higher mathematics courses. Bachelor of Arts students and nursing students receiving transfer credit for statistics. Students who have an SAT or ACT score within two years, as noted in the Score Report Chart. Students who do not meet the exceptions above should plan to take the ALEKS math placement before orientation. All students taking the ALEKS placement will be given access to a personalized learning module within ALEKS and the opportunity to retest if needed. You may discuss this with your advisor during your advising/registration session following orientation. Log into WISER in order to complete your ALEKS Math Placement test. Click here for instructions on logging into WISER. Guided Writing Placement All new students will participate in a guided writing assessment, which will result in recommended placements for both composition and other required courses. Please follow these steps to complete your Guided Writing Placement. ALEKS Math Placement The ALEKS math placement exam is required for ALL incoming undergraduate students EXCEPT: Students who do not meet the exceptions above should plan to take the ALEKS math placement before orientation. All students taking the ALEKS placement will be given access to a personalized learning module within ALEKS and the opportunity to retest if needed. You may discuss this with your advisor during your advising/registration session following orientation. Log into WISER in order to complete your ALEKS Math Placement test. Click here for instructions on logging into WISER. To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. While on-campus housing is primarily reserved for first year students, there may be opportunities for transfer students to live on campus. Please contact housing@umb.edu to inquire about opportunities to live on campus. The Office of Off-Campus Living has staff and resources to assist students with finding off-campus housing. Explore resources and find contact information on our off-campus housing website. While on-campus housing is primarily reserved for first year students, there may be opportunities for transfer students to live on campus. Please contact housing@umb.edu to inquire about opportunities to live on campus. The Office of Off-Campus Living has staff and resources to assist students with finding off-campus housing. Explore resources and find contact information on our off-campus housing website. Be sure to keep up on financial aid, merit scholarships, and employment opportunities. UMass Boston's One Stop staff is here to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar and Bursar questions. Be sure to keep up on financial aid, merit scholarships, and employment opportunities. UMass Boston's One Stop staff is here to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar and Bursar questions. Upon admission to UMass Boston, the Office of Global Programs will reach out to encourage international students in need of an I-20 to upload financial and other documentation. Upon submitting a New Student Enrollment Deposit, International students will need to claim their UMass Boston account and then use those credentials (username and password) to access the Global Programs portal to begin uploading required documentation. Please contact the Office of Global Programs with any questions: global@umb.edu. Upon admission to UMass Boston, the Office of Global Programs will reach out to encourage international students in need of an I-20 to upload financial and other documentation. Upon submitting a New Student Enrollment Deposit, International students will need to claim their UMass Boston account and then use those credentials (username and password) to access the Global Programs portal to begin uploading required documentation. Please contact the Office of Global Programs with any questions: global@umb.edu. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Transfer Enrollment Checklist Submit Your Enrollment Deposit Claim Your UMass Boston Student Accounts Register for New Student Orientation Understanding Your Transfer Credit Evaluation and Degree Audit Writing & Math Placement Health Services: Immunization and Health Insurance On-Campus & Off-Campus Housing Get Your Financing In Order International Students & F-1 Visas Transfer Enrollment Checklist - UMass Boston At UMass Boston, we are committed to helping you build on your prior educational experiences. From dual enrollment credits taken in high school to AP or IB examinations, students are able to transfer in various forms of credit toward their degrees. Advanced credits not only allow students to fulfill various graduation requirements (saving you time and money), additional transfer credit can create space in your schedule that allows you to explore new academic interests and opportunities. Review our policies below to learn more about how you can take advantage of advanced credit. Review the AP Credit Policy Chart to learn how your AP credits transfer into UMass Boston. In order to receive credit for your AP classes, you must request The College Board send official copies of your scores to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Request this when you take the exam or go to The College Board website to request to send your scores. Use UMass Bostons CEEB 3924. Review the AP Credit Policy Chart to learn how your AP credits transfer into UMass Boston. In order to receive credit for your AP classes, you must request The College Board send official copies of your scores to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Request this when you take the exam or go to The College Board website to request to send your scores. Use UMass Bostons CEEB 3924. Students are eligible to transfer in credit from Advanced Level and Advanced Subsidiary Level credits earned through Cambridge International Examinations. Review our A-Level Credit Policy Chart. Advanced Subsidiary (AS) - 4 credits per subject - with minimum passing grade of D in the British System of Education. Advanced Level (AL) - 6 credits per subject - with minimum grade for awarding credit is E in the British System of Education. Students who repeat subjects in both AS and AL level will only receive credits for either AS or AL, but not both. Please submit official Certificates or have your high school make an official photocopy of the original by stamping the copy as official. Provisional Statement of Results cannot be used. Students are eligible to transfer in credit from Advanced Level and Advanced Subsidiary Level credits earned through Cambridge International Examinations. Review our A-Level Credit Policy Chart. Students are eligible to receive International Baccalaureate credit through the completion of the IB Program. Students may earn transfer credit for High Level (HL) exams with scores between 4-7. Current high school students should submit official transcripts of grades 9-11 and grade 12 in progress courses. Official IB results should also be sent directly by the testing authority to the UMass Boston Processing Center (see address information at the bottom of this page). Review the International Baccalaureate (IB) Credit Policy Chart. Students are eligible to receive International Baccalaureate credit through the completion of the IB Program. Students may earn transfer credit for High Level (HL) exams with scores between 4-7. Current high school students should submit official transcripts of grades 9-11 and grade 12 in progress courses. Official IB results should also be sent directly by the testing authority to the UMass Boston Processing Center (see address information at the bottom of this page). Review the International Baccalaureate (IB) Credit Policy Chart. Often referred to as dual enrollment or early college, college-level courses while taken in high school are eligible to transfer in for credit. To see how your credit might transfer into UMass Boston, review our general transfer credit policies. You can even plan ahead and learn exactly how your credits transfer by utilizing our Transfer Credit Database called Transferology. To receive credit for your college courses, make sure to send an official copy of your college transcript to UMass Boston. Transcripts may be sent electronically through services such as Parchment or National Student Clearinghouse (use the email transcripts@umb.edu if required). Official paper transcripts can be mailed to our processing center (see address information at the bottom of this page). Often referred to as dual enrollment or early college, college-level courses while taken in high school are eligible to transfer in for credit. To see how your credit might transfer into UMass Boston, review our general transfer credit policies. You can even plan ahead and learn exactly how your credits transfer by utilizing our Transfer Credit Database called Transferology. To receive credit for your college courses, make sure to send an official copy of your college transcript to UMass Boston. Transcripts may be sent electronically through services such as Parchment or National Student Clearinghouse (use the email transcripts@umb.edu if required). Official paper transcripts can be mailed to our processing center (see address information at the bottom of this page). CLEP exams allow students to demonstrate their mastery of introductory college-level material and earn college credit. Review the CLEP equivalency chart to see how your CLEP exams transfer into UMass Boston. To receive CLEP credits, the exam must be taken prior to matriculation at the university. Matriculated students must obtain prior approval through the Registrar's Office before taking CLEP exams for credit. CLEP exams allow students to demonstrate their mastery of introductory college-level material and earn college credit. Review the CLEP equivalency chart to see how your CLEP exams transfer into UMass Boston. To receive CLEP credits, the exam must be taken prior to matriculation at the university. Matriculated students must obtain prior approval through the Registrar's Office before taking CLEP exams for credit. Email electronic transcripts from Registrar's office to transcripts@umb.edu Mail paper documents to: UMass Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Advanced Credits Advanced Placement (AP) A-Levels International Baccalaureate (IB) College Credit College Level Examination Program (CLEP) Advanced Credits - UMass Boston Congratulations on your referral to the DSP Program at UMass Boston. There are still a few things left to do before you can call yourself a Beacon! Review the list below to be sure you have completed all steps. Be sure to contact the Office of Admissions at 617.287.6100 or undergrad.admissions@umb.edu with any questions. The DSP Program runs Monday, June 17, 2024 through Thursday, July 25, 2024. Log into the Beacon Gateway to submit your DSP Admissions Confirmation Form. The deadline to submit this form is May 1. The $250 New Student Enrollment Deposit is waived for you! If you plan to request on-campus housing for the fall semester be sure to indicate that on your Admissions Confirmation Form. You will then be prompted to pay the required $300 housing reservation fee. Log into the Beacon Gateway to submit your DSP Admissions Confirmation Form. The deadline to submit this form is May 1. The $250 New Student Enrollment Deposit is waived for you! If you plan to request on-campus housing for the fall semester be sure to indicate that on your Admissions Confirmation Form. You will then be prompted to pay the required $300 housing reservation fee. Three business days after submitting your DSP Admissions Confirmation Form, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will be provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: WISER - your UMass Boston student information system which you will access for registration, placement testing, etc. Webmail - your UMass Boston email account The Undergraduate Admissions office will also send you an email when you are able to claim your account. Three business days after submitting your DSP Admissions Confirmation Form, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will be provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: The Undergraduate Admissions office will also send you an email when you are able to claim your account. Writing and Math (ALEKS) Placement - All new DSP students will participate in a writing and math (ALEKS) assessment, which will result in determining your courses for the summer DSP program. The Undergraduate Admissions Office will send you an email with a link to each assessment a few days after you have submitted your DSP Admission Confirmation form. You may also access ALEKS instructions here. DSP students who have not taken a Language Assessment Test during the admission process are required to complete the online writing assessment. You have been informed via email if you will need to complete this assessment. Writing and Math (ALEKS) Placement - All new DSP students will participate in a writing and math (ALEKS) assessment, which will result in determining your courses for the summer DSP program. The Undergraduate Admissions Office will send you an email with a link to each assessment a few days after you have submitted your DSP Admission Confirmation form. You may also access ALEKS instructions here. DSP students who have not taken a Language Assessment Test during the admission process are required to complete the online writing assessment. You have been informed via email if you will need to complete this assessment. All new students are required to attend a two-hour DSP Onboarding Session from 5:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. Thursday, May 30 (in-person) Thursday, June 6 (in-person) During the DSP Onboarding Session you will meet your fellow classmates and learn more about the coursework and expectations for the DSP program. Attendance at the DSP Onboarding Session is mandatory to begin in the program on Monday, June 17. All new students are required to attend a two-hour DSP Onboarding Session from 5:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. During the DSP Onboarding Session you will meet your fellow classmates and learn more about the coursework and expectations for the DSP program. Attendance at the DSP Onboarding Session is mandatory to begin in the program on Monday, June 17. New Student Orientation, June 20 through June 21, is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, familiarize yourself with university resources, and so much more. This program is different from the two-hour DSP Onboarding Session and includes an overnight stay in our residence halls! Registration will be available in Beacon Gateway once you have registered for a two-hour DSP Onboarding Session. A Family Program will be available as well. New Student Orientation, June 20 through June 21, is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, familiarize yourself with university resources, and so much more. This program is different from the two-hour DSP Onboarding Session and includes an overnight stay in our residence halls! Registration will be available in Beacon Gateway once you have registered for a two-hour DSP Onboarding Session. A Family Program will be available as well. Summer housing is available during the 6-week summer DSP program. Submit your summer housing application online. Rates are $1,550 for a shared room with a private bathroom; or $1,340 for a shared room with community bathroom. Any additional questions about summer housing may be directed to summerhousing@umb.edu. Summer housing is available during the 6-week summer DSP program. Submit your summer housing application online. Rates are $1,550 for a shared room with a private bathroom; or $1,340 for a shared room with community bathroom. Any additional questions about summer housing may be directed to summerhousing@umb.edu. UMass Boston's on-campus residence halls provide community, access to campus happenings, and beautiful views of Boston and the Boston Harbor. On-campus housing is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Follow these steps to ensure your place in our residence halls: Submit your $300 Housing Reservation Fee in Beacon Gateway Create your UMass Boston account. 24 hours after having submitted your Housing Reservation Fee, log into your Housing Portal with your newly created UMass Boston credentials Complete your housing application and await an email from the Housing Office on next steps For more information about on-campus housing, visit our housing website or contact the Housing Office at housing@umb.edu or 617.287.6011. UMass Boston's on-campus residence halls provide community, access to campus happenings, and beautiful views of Boston and the Boston Harbor. On-campus housing is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Follow these steps to ensure your place in our residence halls: For more information about on-campus housing, visit our housing website or contact the Housing Office at housing@umb.edu or 617.287.6011. UMass Boston's Office of Off-Campus Housing has staff and resources to assist new and continuing students with finding an off-campus residence. Contact the Office of Off-Campus Housing at offcampus@umb.edu or 617.287.6373. UMass Boston's Office of Off-Campus Housing has staff and resources to assist new and continuing students with finding an off-campus residence. Contact the Office of Off-Campus Housing at offcampus@umb.edu or 617.287.6373. Be sure to file your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for consideration on financial aid and employment opportunities. If you have filed a FAFSA you will receive a financial aid award letter via Beacon Gateway. Remember that UMass Boston's One Stop staff is here to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar, and Bursar questions. Be sure to file your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for consideration on financial aid and employment opportunities. If you have filed a FAFSA you will receive a financial aid award letter via Beacon Gateway. Remember that UMass Boston's One Stop staff is here to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar, and Bursar questions. To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. Getting involved on campus is one of the best ways to maximize satisfaction, overall experience, and academic performance. Explore student activities, clubs, and organizations before arriving on campus. Getting involved on campus is one of the best ways to maximize satisfaction, overall experience, and academic performance. Explore student activities, clubs, and organizations before arriving on campus. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu DSP Enrollment Checklist Submit your Admissions Confirmation Form Claim your UMass Boston Account (WISER & Email) Complete Your Writing & Math Placement Register for DSP Onboarding Session New Student Orientation Summer On-Campus Housing On-Campus Housing (for the academic year) Off-Campus Housing Get Your Financing in Order Health Services: Immunization and Health Insurance Explore Student Clubs and Organizations DSP Enrollment Checklist - UMass Boston Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston. There are still a few things left to do before you can call yourself a Beacon! Review the list below and be sure to contact the Office of Admissions at 617.287.6100 or undergrad.admissions@umb.edu with any questions. All new students must submit a $250 New Student Deposit and, if living on campus, a $300 housing reservation fee. Log into Beacon Gateway to submit your payments. The deadline to receive a refund on your New Student Deposit and Housing Reservation fee is May 1. If you believe you may qualify for a New Student Deposit waiver, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Students referred to the Directions for Student Potential (DSP) program should review a separate checklist. All new students must submit a $250 New Student Deposit and, if living on campus, a $300 housing reservation fee. Log into Beacon Gateway to submit your payments. The deadline to receive a refund on your New Student Deposit and Housing Reservation fee is May 1. If you believe you may qualify for a New Student Deposit waiver, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Students referred to the Directions for Student Potential (DSP) program should review a separate checklist. 24 hours after submitting your New Student Deposit, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will be provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: WISER - your UMass Boston student information system which you will access for registration, placement testing, etc. Webmail - your UMass Boston email account 24 hours after submitting your New Student Deposit, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will be provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: All new students are required to attend New Student Orientation. Orientation is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, register for classes, and familiarize yourself with university resources. After you've submitted your enrollment deposit, log into Beacon Gateway and click on the 'Events' tab to register for Fall Semester New Student Orientation. All new students are required to attend New Student Orientation. Orientation is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, register for classes, and familiarize yourself with university resources. After you've submitted your enrollment deposit, log into Beacon Gateway and click on the 'Events' tab to register for Fall Semester New Student Orientation. Guided Writing Placement All new students will participate in a guided writing assessment, which will result in recommended placements for both composition and first-year seminar courses. Review the steps to complete your Guided Writing Placement. ALEKS Math Placement Students should refer to the Score Report Chart when considering whether to take the ALEKS math placement. When in doubt, take ALEKS before orientation, which will also give you access to a personalized learning module within ALEKS, and then give you the opportunity to retest. You may discuss this with your advisor during your advising/registration session following orientation. Log into WISER in order to complete your ALEKS Math Placement test. Read instructions for logging into WISER. Guided Writing Placement All new students will participate in a guided writing assessment, which will result in recommended placements for both composition and first-year seminar courses. Review the steps to complete your Guided Writing Placement. ALEKS Math Placement Students should refer to the Score Report Chart when considering whether to take the ALEKS math placement. When in doubt, take ALEKS before orientation, which will also give you access to a personalized learning module within ALEKS, and then give you the opportunity to retest. You may discuss this with your advisor during your advising/registration session following orientation. Log into WISER in order to complete your ALEKS Math Placement test. Read instructions for logging into WISER. To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance by returning an immunization form to University Health Services. Also, you must participate in a school-sponsored qualifying Student Health Program or submit a waiver demonstrating comparable coverage through an alternate health plan. Save about $3,000 annually on insurance costs by submitting this waiver if you already have your own health plan or receive coverage from a parent/guardian's plan. UMass Boston's on-campus residence halls provide community, access to campus happenings and beautiful views of Boston and the Boston Harbor. On-campus housing is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Follow these steps to ensure your place in our residence halls: Submit your $300 Housing Reservation Fee in Beacon Gateway Create your UMass Boston account 24 hours after having submitted your Housing Reservation Fee, log into your Housing Portal with your newly created UMass Boston credentials Complete your housing application and await an email from the Housing Office on next steps For more information about on-campus housing, visit our housing website. On-Campus Housing Contact Information housing@umb.edu 617.287.6011 UMass Boston's on-campus residence halls provide community, access to campus happenings and beautiful views of Boston and the Boston Harbor. On-campus housing is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Follow these steps to ensure your place in our residence halls: For more information about on-campus housing, visit our housing website. UMass Boston's Office of Off-Campus Housing has staff and resources to assist new and continuing students with finding an off-campus residence. Off-Campus Housing Contact Information offcampus@umb.edu 617.287.6373 UMass Boston's Office of Off-Campus Housing has staff and resources to assist new and continuing students with finding an off-campus residence. Be sure to keep up on financial aid, merit scholarships, and employment opportunities. UMass Boston's One Stop staff is there to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar and Bursar questions. Be sure to keep up on financial aid, merit scholarships, and employment opportunities. UMass Boston's One Stop staff is there to help you with your Financial Aid, Registrar and Bursar questions. Getting involved on campus is one of the best ways to maximize satisfaction, overall experience, and academic performance. Explore student activities, clubs, and organizations before arriving on campus. Getting involved on campus is one of the best ways to maximize satisfaction, overall experience, and academic performance. Explore student activities, clubs, and organizations before arriving on campus. Upon admission to UMass Boston, the Office of Global Programs will reach out to encourage international students in need of an I-20 to upload financial and other documentation. Upon submitting a New Student Enrollment Deposit, International students will need to claim their UMass Boston account and then use those credentials (username and password) to access the Global Programs portal to begin uploading required documentation. Please contact the Office of Global Programs with any questions: global@umb.edu. Upon admission to UMass Boston, the Office of Global Programs will reach out to encourage international students in need of an I-20 to upload financial and other documentation. Upon submitting a New Student Enrollment Deposit, International students will need to claim their UMass Boston account and then use those credentials (username and password) to access the Global Programs portal to begin uploading required documentation. Please contact the Office of Global Programs with any questions: global@umb.edu. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu First-Year Enrollment Checklist New Student Deposit & Housing Deposit Claim Your UMass Boston Account (WISER & Email) Register for New Student Orientation Writing & Math Placement Health Services: Immunization & Health Insurance On-Campus Housing Off -Campus Housing Get Your Financing in Order Explore Student Clubs and Organizations International Students and F-1 Visas First Year Enrollment Checklist - UMass Boston Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston. As a newly admitted graduate student we recommend that you review the Admitted Student Checklist below to confirm your space in your program and to take the necessary next steps towards finalzing your enrollment. Contact the Office of Graduate Admissions at 617.287.6400 or graduate.admissions@umb.edu with any questions. To confirm a space in your graduate program you will need to submit your Enrollment Confirmation Form and $250 New Student Enrollment Deposit. Log into your Beacon Gateway to submit your form and make your payment. To confirm a space in your graduate program you will need to submit your Enrollment Confirmation Form and $250 New Student Enrollment Deposit. Log into your Beacon Gateway to submit your form and make your payment. 24 hours after submitting your New Student Deposit, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will be provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: WISER- your UMass Boston student information system which you will access for course registration, billing, Blackboard, and more. Webmail- your UMass Boston email account 24 hours after submitting your New Student Deposit, visit umb.edu/createmyaccount and follow the prompts to set up your security questions and password. The Campus ID (e.g. First.Last001) that will be provided to you, in conjunction with the password you create, can be used to access: You will soon receive a communication from your respective department and/or program director about registration. This may contain information regarding course registration, your Academic Advisor, and other details to aid you in getting prepared for classes. If you wish to contact your department or Graduate Program Director for more information about registration and next steps, you can search for program contact information here. You will soon receive a communication from your respective department and/or program director about registration. This may contain information regarding course registration, your Academic Advisor, and other details to aid you in getting prepared for classes. If you wish to contact your department or Graduate Program Director for more information about registration and next steps, you can search for program contact information here. Register for an in-person or virtual onboarding session for new graduate students. Register today. Register for an in-person or virtual onboarding session for new graduate students. Register today. All new full-time graduate students are required to demonstrate proof of immunization. After having created your UMass Boston account, log into your MyHealthBeacon portal to begin the process of completing/uploading all required documentation. All new full-time graduate students are required to demonstrate proof of immunization. After having created your UMass Boston account, log into your MyHealthBeacon portal to begin the process of completing/uploading all required documentation. UMass Boston's Office of Off-Campus Housing has staff and resources to assist new and continuing students with finding an off-campus residence. Off-Campus Housing Contact Information offcampus@umb.edu 617.287.6373 UMass Boston's Office of Off-Campus Housing has staff and resources to assist new and continuing students with finding an off-campus residence. Off-Campus Housing Contact Information offcampus@umb.edu 617.287.6373 Parking on Campus Parking Rates Sign up for a parking pass Commuting to Campus Learn more about commuting via MBTA (discounted passes) Parking on Campus Commuting to Campus All new UMass Boston students should sign up for a BeaconCard. The BeaconCard is a OneCard that can be used to check-out items at the Healy Library, access on-campus parking, add BeaconBucks or dining plans, and more. Learn how to go about requesting your BeaconCard. All new UMass Boston students should sign up for a BeaconCard. The BeaconCard is a OneCard that can be used to check-out items at the Healy Library, access on-campus parking, add BeaconBucks or dining plans, and more. Learn how to go about requesting your BeaconCard. Learn more about Graduate Assistantship opportunities Qualifying students should submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as soon as possible UMass Boston FAFSA code: 002222 Contact UMass Boston's One Stop for any questions regarding billing and/or your financial aid offer All international students requiring an F1 student visa are required to complete the following steps in order to receive an I-20 Certificate of Eligibility from UMass Boston: Log into your Beacon Gateway and submit your Enrollment Confirmation Form and New Student Enrollment Deposit Claim your UMass Boston student account After having claimed your UMass Boston account and created your unique password, use those credentials to log into UMassVIP After logging into UMassVIP, click on the 'Admissions' link and begin the process of completing the Initial Undergraduate Declaration & Certification of Finance (DCF) E-Form In order to receive an I-20, students will be required to upload: Completed Declaration & Certification of Finance (DCF) E-form Copy of Passport Biography page (.PDF document) Funding Options (.PDF) Personal Funds: bank statement issued within the last 6 months showing adequate liquid funds Sponsor: Sponsor's Statement and Bank Statemetn in sponsor's name showing adequate liquid funds Government Scholarship: A scholarship letter issued by the governing authority Previous visa history If you have any issues accessing UMassVIP or have other questions about receiving your I-20 Certificate of Eligibility, please contact the Office of Global Programs. We would encourage you to review the helpful information provided on the Global Programs website, including "Tips for a Successful Visa Interview". All international students requiring an F1 student visa are required to complete the following steps in order to receive an I-20 Certificate of Eligibility from UMass Boston: In order to receive an I-20, students will be required to upload: If you have any issues accessing UMassVIP or have other questions about receiving your I-20 Certificate of Eligibility, please contact the Office of Global Programs. We would encourage you to review the helpful information provided on the Global Programs website, including "Tips for a Successful Visa Interview". 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Graduate Student Enrollment Checklist New Student Enrollment Deposit Claim Your UMass Boston Account (WISER and Webmail) Course Registration Register for Graduate Student Orientation Health Services: Immunization and Health Insurance Off Campus Housing Parking & Transportation Request a BeaconCard Graduate Assistantships and Financing Your Education I-20 Certificate of Eligibility and International Student Visas Graduate Student Enrollment Checklist - UMass Boston Congratulations on your acceptance to UMass Boston. There are still a few things left to do before you can call yourself a Beacon! Review the list below to be sure you have completed all steps. Contact the Office of Admissions at 617.287.6100 or undergrad.admissions@umb.edu with any questions. Have additional questions? Drop into the International Student and Scholar Services' virtual office hours Tuesday through Thursday, 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. EST and 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. EST. All new students must submit a $250 New Student Deposit which will be applied to your first semester tuition bill. Log into Beacon Gateway to submit your deposit. All new students must submit a $250 New Student Deposit which will be applied to your first semester tuition bill. Log into Beacon Gateway to submit your deposit. All international students requiring an F1 student visa are required to complete the following steps in order to receive an I-20 Certificate of Eligibility from UMass Boston: Log into your Beacon Gateway and submit your New Student Enrollment Deposit Claim your UMass Boston student account After having claimed your UMass Boston account and created your unique password, use those credentials to log into UMassVIP After logging into UMassVIP, click on the Admissions link and begin the process of completing the Initial Undergraduate Declaration & Certification of Finance (DCF) E-Form In order to receive an I-20, students will be required to upload: Completed Declaration & Certification of Finance (DCF) E-form Copy of Passport Biography page (.PDF document) Previous visa history Funding Options (.PDF) Personal Funds: bank statement issued within the last 6 months showing adequate liquid funds Sponsor: Sponsor's Statement and Bank Statement in sponsor's name showing adequate liquid funds Government Scholarship: A scholarship letter issued by the governing authority If you have any issues accessing UMassVIP or have other questions about receiving your I-20 Certificate of Eligibility, please contact the Office of Global Programs. We would encourage you to review the helpful information provided on the Global Programs website, including "Tips for a Successful Visa Interview". All international students requiring an F1 student visa are required to complete the following steps in order to receive an I-20 Certificate of Eligibility from UMass Boston: In order to receive an I-20, students will be required to upload: If you have any issues accessing UMassVIP or have other questions about receiving your I-20 Certificate of Eligibility, please contact the Office of Global Programs. We would encourage you to review the helpful information provided on the Global Programs website, including "Tips for a Successful Visa Interview". If you're planning to live on campus, after submitting your $300 housing reservation fee, log back into Beacon Gateway to access your housing application. For more information about on-campus or off-campus housing options, visit our housing website. On-Campus Housing housing@umb.edu 617.287.6011 Off-Campus Housing offcampus@umb.edu 617.287.6373 If you're planning to live on campus, after submitting your $300 housing reservation fee, log back into Beacon Gateway to access your housing application. For more information about on-campus or off-campus housing options, visit our housing website. All new students are required to attend New Student Orientation. Orientation is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, register for classes, and familiarize yourself with university resources. After you've submitted your enrollment deposit, log into Beacon Gateway and click on the 'Events' tab in order to register for your New Student Orientation. All new students are required to attend New Student Orientation. Orientation is where you'll have the chance to meet fellow classmates, register for classes, and familiarize yourself with university resources. After you've submitted your enrollment deposit, log into Beacon Gateway and click on the 'Events' tab in order to register for your New Student Orientation. Guided Writing Placement All new students will participate in a guided writing assessment, which will result in recommended placements for both composition and first-year seminar courses. Please expect an invitation in your personal email account with the subject line: Guided Writing Placement Complete Before Orientation. This process will help you determine which writing courses you should take in your first year at UMass Boston. You will receive a confirmation email with the subject line: Guided Writing Placement Recommended Courses Please retain this email for your records. It will be helpful to have it readily available during your advising session following orientation. ALEKS Math Placement Students should refer to the Score Report Chart when considering whether to take the ALEKS math placement. When in doubt, take ALEKS before orientation, which will also give you access to a personalized learning module within ALEKS, and then give you the opportunity to retest. You may discuss this with your advisor during your advising/registration session following orientation. Log into WISER in order to complete your ALEKS Math Placement test. Read instructions for logging into WISER. Guided Writing Placement All new students will participate in a guided writing assessment, which will result in recommended placements for both composition and first-year seminar courses. Please expect an invitation in your personal email account with the subject line: Guided Writing Placement Complete Before Orientation. This process will help you determine which writing courses you should take in your first year at UMass Boston. You will receive a confirmation email with the subject line: Guided Writing Placement Recommended Courses Please retain this email for your records. It will be helpful to have it readily available during your advising session following orientation. ALEKS Math Placement Students should refer to the Score Report Chart when considering whether to take the ALEKS math placement. When in doubt, take ALEKS before orientation, which will also give you access to a personalized learning module within ALEKS, and then give you the opportunity to retest. You may discuss this with your advisor during your advising/registration session following orientation. Log into WISER in order to complete your ALEKS Math Placement test. Read instructions for logging into WISER. Bills will be issued after the student registers for classes Bills are only available electronically in WISER. View Your Billing Account Activity Make an online payment UMass Boston offers finance-free, no-interest payment plans Learn about enrolling in payment plans For questions pertaining to financial aid or billing, UMass Boston's One Stop has "live chat" Mon-Fri during business hours. For questions pertaining to financial aid or billing, UMass Boston's One Stop has "live chat" Mon-Fri during business hours. To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance. Using your UMass Boston credentials, access the MyHealthBeacon portal to upload any required documentation. To be ready for the start of classes, you are required to provide proof of immunization compliance. Using your UMass Boston credentials, access the MyHealthBeacon portal to upload any required documentation. All UMass Boston students are required to participate in a qualifying health insurance program. Students may waive their university-provided health insurance if they can provide proof of comparable coverage. Learn more about waiving your university-provided health insurance Contact the Bursar's Office with any questions regarding insurance waivers. All UMass Boston students are required to participate in a qualifying health insurance program. Students may waive their university-provided health insurance if they can provide proof of comparable coverage. Learn more about waiving your university-provided health insurance Contact the Bursar's Office with any questions regarding insurance waivers. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu International Student Enrollment Checklist Submit Your Enrollment Deposit Submit Your Enrollment Deposit I-20 Certificate of Eligibility Housing New Student Orientation Writing & Math Placement Tests Billing University Health Services & Immunizations Health Insurance International Student Enrollment Checklist - UMass Boston Undergraduate Admissions looks forward to reading your application. We welcome all students who are considering UMass Boston to apply and will review all applicants who submit all application requirements. Be sure to review the below information to ensure your application is complete. Apply online by submitting either the UMass Boston Application or the Common Application. UMass Boston Application Common Application Please send all additional application requirements to the following address: UMass Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Use the tools below to check the status of your application. If we're missing any portion of your application (e.g., your transcripts, essay, SAT scores, letter of recommendation) the status check will let you know. Check Your Application Status If you need any assistance during the application process, you may contact us at undergrad.admissions@umb.edu or 617.287.6100. Early Action I (recommended for Nursing): November 1 Early Action II: January 1 Regular Decision: February 15 Rolling Admission: July 15 ___________ Spring Semester: December 15 Early Action I (recommended for Nursing): November 1 Early Action II: January 1 Regular Decision: February 15 Rolling Admission: July 15 ___________ Spring Semester: December 15 Completed applications will include the following information: Completed UMass Boston Application or Common Application with Essay Application Fee: $60 *fee waivers are accepted Official high school transcript and/or high school equivalency (GED, HiSET, etc.). In-progress high school transcript must include grades 9-11 and should reference in-progress senior year courses. Senior grades may be submitted when available but may not initially be considered. First year students who have graduated from high school are required to submit an official, final high school transcript inclusive of graduation date. SAT or ACT scores (unless applying with No Test Option) Recommendation Letter (school-based counselor or teacher) English Language Proficiency for non-native speakers of English Completed applications will include the following information: First-year students who wish to receive an early, non-binding admissions decision should consider applying Early Action. UMass Boston offers two Early Action deadlines: November 1 for EA I and January 1 for EA II. All supplemental documents (transcripts, essay, etc.) must be received by application deadline. Advantages: Early non-binding decision by January 1 for EA I deadline and by February 15 for EA II deadline Priority consideration for merit scholarships and financial aid First access to secure on-campus housing First-year students who wish to receive an early, non-binding admissions decision should consider applying Early Action. UMass Boston offers two Early Action deadlines: November 1 for EA I and January 1 for EA II. All supplemental documents (transcripts, essay, etc.) must be received by application deadline. Advantages: UMass Boston allows students to self-report SAT and ACT test scores. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will use self-reported test results for the purposes of completing an application, rendering an admissions decision, and, if applicable, awarding merit scholarship. Applicants who enroll at the university will be required to submit official SAT or ACT scores prior to enrolling. Students who falsify self-reported test results and/or do not provide official scores prior to enrolling may have their admissions decision rescinded and/or scholarship revoked. To submit your official test scores, please contact: The College Board and use our code 3924. ACT and use our code 1925 UMass Boston allows students to self-report SAT and ACT test scores. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will use self-reported test results for the purposes of completing an application, rendering an admissions decision, and, if applicable, awarding merit scholarship. Applicants who enroll at the university will be required to submit official SAT or ACT scores prior to enrolling. Students who falsify self-reported test results and/or do not provide official scores prior to enrolling may have their admissions decision rescinded and/or scholarship revoked. To submit your official test scores, please contact: UMass Boston is committed to providing an accessible education for all students and we recognize that while useful, standardized test scores may not accurately reflect a student's academic abilities. As such, applicants may choose to apply without submitting standardized test scores. Please read our FAQ before indicating your preference on your application. UMass Boston is committed to providing an accessible education for all students and we recognize that while useful, standardized test scores may not accurately reflect a student's academic abilities. As such, applicants may choose to apply without submitting standardized test scores. Please read our FAQ before indicating your preference on your application. Homeschooled applicants are encouraged to apply for admission to UMass Boston and are required to submit all of the application materials required for first-year applicants. Applicants may be asked to submit additional information describing curriculum and/or texts used. Be sure your homeschooled transcript includes 9-11 grades (including senior year courses in progress) as well as documentation from your school district of approved curriculum, along with: Grade level of each course along with credits earned for each course Grades earned (or written evaluation) and grading scale used for each academic year Grade point average (if applicable) Graduation or completion date - please submit your final 9-12 transcript once youve completed your studies Any advanced level credit you may have achieved, i.e., AP scores, Dual Enrollment, etc. While not required, it is beneficial to let the admissions committee know of your extracurricular activities including, but not limited to community involvement, recreational sports, or work-related experience you may have. Homeschooled applicants are encouraged to apply for admission to UMass Boston and are required to submit all of the application materials required for first-year applicants. Applicants may be asked to submit additional information describing curriculum and/or texts used. Be sure your homeschooled transcript includes 9-11 grades (including senior year courses in progress) as well as documentation from your school district of approved curriculum, along with: While not required, it is beneficial to let the admissions committee know of your extracurricular activities including, but not limited to community involvement, recreational sports, or work-related experience you may have. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Apply as a First-Year Student Start Your Application Check Application Status Deadlines Application Requirements Early Action Self-Reported Test Scores Test Optional Homeschool Apply as a First-Year Student - UMass Boston Learn more about UMass Boston by scheduling an appointment with your admissions counselor. If you are a current high school student or have graduated high school and have not completed any college-level coursework, then our regional first-year counselors are here to assist you throughout your college journey and application. Meet our team of dedicated first-year admissions counselors, each assigned to specific regions, ready to guide and support you throughout your application process. Find your counselor below to connect with them directly and get personalized assistance. Alexandra is UMass Bostons first-year admissions counselor for Middlesex County and Cape Cod Massachusetts, Connecticut (Fairfield County), and Midwestern States (Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, West Virginia, Wisconsin). Chat with Alexandra if you attend school in any of these areas. Grace is UMass Bostons first-year admissions counselor for Fitchburg, Worcester, and North Worcester Counties in Massachusetts, and Connecticut (New London, Windham, New Haven, and Middlesex Counties). Chat with Grace if you attend school in any of these areas. Katie is UMass Bostons first-year admissions counselor for the Metro Boston area. Chat with Katie if you attend school in any of these areas. Maura is UMass Bostons first-year counselor for Western Massachusetts (Berkshire & Franklin Counties, Springfield & Hampshire County), South Shore Massachusetts (Quincy/ Plymouth/Norfolk/Bristol Counties), Connecticut (Waterbury/Litchfield/Hartford/Tolland Counties), Vermont, Rhode Island, Western States (Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Washington, Wyoming), and Southwestern States (Arizona, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas). Chat with Maura if you attend school in any of these areas. Tim is UMass Bostons first-year admissions counselor for Essex County Massachusetts, Maine, and New Hampshire. Chat with Tim if you attend school in any of these areas. Steve is UMass Bostons first-year admissions counselor for all Middle States (Delaware, Washington D.C., Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania). Chat with Steve if you attend school in any of these areas. Schedule an appointment with our first available counselor. Schedule First-Available Appointment 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Chat With Your Counselor First-Year Students Chat with your counselor Alexandra Chat with your counselor Grace Chat with your counselor Katie Chat with your counselor Maura Chat with your counselor Tim Chat with your counselor Steve Chat With Your Counselor - UMass Boston Tour Length: Approximately 30 minutes Campus Main Entrance: 100 Morrissey Blvd., Boston, MA 02125 Welcome and thank you for joining us at UMass Boston for our Campus Driving Tour experience! We hope that this journey will give you a taste of the peninsula our Beacons call home, and we cant wait to be able to welcome you in person very soon. On this page, you will find a complete list of our tour stops with audio and video elements for you to learn more about UMass Boston and refer back to at any time. Please wait until you are fully parked at each stop to press play and remain in your vehicle at all times following along the mapped route to each stop. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Campus Driving Tour Introduction Download the full Campus Map Directions Stop #1 - Integrated Sciences Complex Drop-Off Area Stop #2 - University Drive South Stop #3 - Campus Center Admissions Lot Stop #4 - Columbia Point Circle Behind Campus Center Stop #5 - Parking Lot of Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the U.S. Senate Stop #6 - Clark Athletic Center Parking Lot UMass Boston Driving Tour - UMass Boston UMass Boston has created a variety of programs to help you get started on your college career with us. While you may not meet our academic requirements for admission right now, we see that you have potential to be academically successful here. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will notify you in your decision letter if you are eligible for one of our pathway programs. Please note: you may not directly apply to these programs, and some are available by referral only. Directions for Student Potential (DSP) is a referral-based program for which the Office of Undergraduate Admissions will determine your eligibility. Students recommended to join this program will begin their studies by joining our free, 6-week summer session. Directions for Student Potential (DSP) is a referral-based program for which the Office of Undergraduate Admissions will determine your eligibility. Students recommended to join this program will begin their studies by joining our free, 6-week summer session. The Pathway Program is a referral-based program for which the Office of Undergraduate Admissions will determine your eligibility. Students recommended to join this program will begin their studies at UMass Boston as a non-degree student in the fall semester. The Pathway Program is a referral-based program for which the Office of Undergraduate Admissions will determine your eligibility. Students recommended to join this program will begin their studies at UMass Boston as a non-degree student in the fall semester. The Future Beacon Option affords students who were not admitted to UMass Boston the opportunity to consider transferring for a future semester. The Future Beacon Option affords students who were not admitted to UMass Boston the opportunity to consider transferring for a future semester. Office of Undergraduate Admissions staff are available to discuss these programs on an individual basis. Connect with us by phone at 617.287.6100 or by email at undergrad.admissions@umb.edu. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Pathways Into UMass Boston Directions for Student Potential - DSP (Referral) Pathway Program (Referral) Future Beacon Option Pathways Into UMass Boston - UMass Boston UMass Boston is committed to providing an accessible education for all students and we recognize that while useful, standardized test scores may not accurately reflect a student's academic abilities. As such, applicants may choose to apply without submitting standardized test scores. When can I apply test-optional? First-year students may apply test optional. The no-test option is available for students applying Early Action I (November 1 deadline), Early Action II (January 1 deadline), and Regular Decision (February 15 deadline). Why is UMass Boston offering a test-optional admissions plan? As a university we recognize that not all students abilities are reflected by a standardized test score. In offering a no-test option we hope to allow qualified academic applicants to highlight their qualifications. I have a diagnosed learning disability. How should I apply? Applicants with professionally diagnosed and documented learning disabilities (documentation must include diagnostic test results) are exempt from taking standardized tests for admission to any public institution of higher education in the Commonwealth. Applicants must submit any diagnostic testing documentation along with other admission materials (transcripts, essay, etc.) and prior to receiving an admissions decision. Will my application be more competitive if I apply test-optional? That depends. It's ultimately up to the applicant to determine which option best highlights their academic abilities. The most competitive test-optional applicants have a 3.2 or greater recalculated high school GPA and AP, honors, or college preparatory coursework that clearly demonstrates an ability to succeed academically at the college level. Can I apply to all majors test-optional? Yes, first-year applicants may apply to all undergraduate programs test-optional. Can I still qualify for merit scholarships? Students applying test-optional may qualify for some, though not all, merit-based scholarships. Eligible students that submit the FAFSA will, however, still qualify for need-based aid. Please review our merit scholarship grid to see which first-year scholarships require standardized test scores. Are test-optional applicants eligible to be considered for the Honors College? Yes, test-optional applicants may still be considered for UMass Bostons Honors College. Im an international applicant. Can I apply test-optional? Yes, international applicants who have completed two or more years of an U.S., British, Canadian, Australian or International Baccalaureate curriculum may apply test-optional. All other international applicants will need to submit standardized test scores demonstrating language proficiency (SAT, ACT, TOEFL, IELTS, Duolingo, etc.) Can anyone select no-test option? Yes, all applicants can apply without standardized tests to any undergraduate program. Non-international students who have taken ESL or ELL coursework during high school may be required to prove English language proficiency. Apply Now 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Test-Optional Admission FAQs Test Optional Admission - UMass Boston UMass Boston is excited to partner with high schools to offer their students the opportunity to enroll in dual enrollment courses. Dual enrollment affords students the opportunity to challenge themselves academically, experience the rigor and format of university coursework, and earn credit that can be applied to their college degree. Option 1 Course will be taught by UMass Boston faculty on campus or remotely and synchronously $793 per student, with a minimum of 12 students and no more than 18 Option 2 Course is taught by UMass Boston faculty onsite at the high school $642 per student, with a minimum of 12 students and no more than 18 Option 3 University vets a qualified high school instructor and uses our curriculum to teach the course onsite at the high school $184 per student, with a minimum of 12 students Option 1 Option 2 Option 3 UMass Boston suggests offering introductory courses that are generally transferrable for credit and provide broad based exposure to a discipline, as well as a solid foundation for future studies. Schools should identify a first, second, and third choice when selecting a dual enrollment course as availability is dependent upon several factors including faculty schedules. UMass Boston suggests offering introductory courses that are generally transferrable for credit and provide broad based exposure to a discipline, as well as a solid foundation for future studies. Schools should identify a first, second, and third choice when selecting a dual enrollment course as availability is dependent upon several factors including faculty schedules. All dual enrollment courses will need to be offered in accordance with UMass Boston's academic calendar. It is our preference that requests for dual enrollment courses are made a minimum of 8 weeks before the start of the term. Fall Term: Request Deadline - July 1 Spring Term: Request Deadline - December 31 Summer Term: Request Deadline - April 1 All dual enrollment courses will need to be offered in accordance with UMass Boston's academic calendar. It is our preference that requests for dual enrollment courses are made a minimum of 8 weeks before the start of the term. Fall Term: Request Deadline - July 1 Spring Term: Request Deadline - December 31 Summer Term: Request Deadline - April 1 Please take a moment to complete our interest form and we will reach out to you to schedule a conversation. Individual high school students interested in enrolling in UMass Boston undergraduate courses may do so as a non-degree student. Information on how and when to apply as a non-degree student and register for courses can be found on the non-degree student page. Please take a moment to complete our interest form and we will reach out to you to schedule a conversation. Individual high school students interested in enrolling in UMass Boston undergraduate courses may do so as a non-degree student. Information on how and when to apply as a non-degree student and register for courses can be found on the non-degree student page. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Dual Enrollment Partnership Opportunities Course Formats & Cost Course Offerings Timeline Take the Next Step Dual Enrollment Partnership Opportunities - UMass Boston Students who previously applied to UMass Boston within the last year are welcome to be reconsidered for admission for an upcoming semester. Please follow the instructions below based on the semester you previously applied. Submit a UMass Boston Application and indicate that you previously submitted an undergraduate admissions application. All previously submitted application materials will be added to your new application. Please allow up to 7 business days for processing any previous application materials. Submit the UMass Boston Fast Application using your existing Beacon Gateway credentials. All previously submitted application materials will be added to your new application. Please allow up to 7 business days for processing any previous application materials. Students should follow the application requirements and deadlines when reapplying as a first-year or transfer applicant. Please be sure to submit any updated or new official transcripts. If we are not able to process your reapplication request, an Admissions Counselor will contact you. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Reapplication Process Students Who Applied to Start in 2021 Students Who Applied to Start in 2022 or Later Reapplication Process - UMass Boston Thank you for your interest. Please take a moment to complete the form below and we will reach out to you to schedule a conversation. > 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Dual Enrollment Interest Form Dual Enrollment Interest Form Dual Enrollment Interest Form - UMass Boston If you already applied to UMass Boston but were not admissible, the Future Beacon Option lays out a plan for you to transfer to UMass Boston at a later date. While your academic credentials do not quality for admission to UMass Boston at this time, follow these steps to become a UMass Boston student in a future semester: Sign Up! If you've applied to UMass Boston but were not admissible, the Future Beacon Option at Bunker Hill Community College makes it easy to enroll at Bunker Hill Community College and then transfer to UMass Boston in a future semester. UMass Boston and Bunker Hill Community College have established a partnership that will make this transition very easy. By choosing to participate in this program, you can take advantage of the following benefits: No need to fill out an additional application. UMass Boston will share your information with Bunker Hill. In addition to the advising resources and support offered at Bunker Hill, you will have additional support about all transfer planning from UMass Boston's Transfer Enrollment Counselor. When you are ready to transfer, your reactivation will be made easy and the fee will be waived. Transfer when you are ready, after earning an Associate's degree, or after earning just 12 credits of college level course work (with a 2.5 GPA or higher). To participate you must complete the program participation form. Note: Successful completion of the Future Beacon Option does not guarantee admission to the Nursing, Engineering, or Management (Business) programs at UMass Boston. Other majors or programs may also be excluded based on limited availability or special requirements. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Sign Up! If you've applied to UMass Boston but were not admissible, the Future Beacon Option at Bunker Hill Community College makes it easy to enroll at Bunker Hill Community College and then transfer to UMass Boston in a future semester. UMass Boston and Bunker Hill Community College have established a partnership that will make this transition very easy. By choosing to participate in this program, you can take advantage of the following benefits: Transfer when you are ready, after earning an Associate's degree, or after earning just 12 credits of college level course work (with a 2.5 GPA or higher). To participate you must complete the program participation form. Note: Successful completion of the Future Beacon Option does not guarantee admission to the Nursing, Engineering, or Management (Business) programs at UMass Boston. Other majors or programs may also be excluded based on limited availability or special requirements. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Sign Up! If you've applied to UMass Boston but were not admissible, the Future Beacon Option at Roxbury Community College makes it easy to enroll at Roxbury Community College and then transfer to UMass Boston in a future semester. UMass Boston and Roxbury Community College have established a partnership that will make this transition very easy. By choosing to participate in this program, you can take advantage of the following benefits: No need to fill out an additional application. UMass Boston will share your information with Roxbury Community College. In addition to the advising resources and support offered at Roxbury Community College, you will have additional support about all transfer planning from a dedicated transfer counselor. When you are ready to transfer, complete the Joint Admissions Confirmation Form and we will waive the application fee. Transfer when you are ready, after earning an Associate's degree, or after earning just 12 credits of college level coursework (with a 2.5 GPA or higher). To participate you must complete the program participation form. Note: Successful completion of the Future Beacon Option does not guarantee admission to the Nursing, Engineering, or Management (Business) programs at UMass Boston. Other majors or programs may also be excluded based on limited availability or special requirements. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Sign Up! If you've applied to UMass Boston but were not admissible, the Future Beacon Option at Roxbury Community College makes it easy to enroll at Roxbury Community College and then transfer to UMass Boston in a future semester. UMass Boston and Roxbury Community College have established a partnership that will make this transition very easy. By choosing to participate in this program, you can take advantage of the following benefits: Transfer when you are ready, after earning an Associate's degree, or after earning just 12 credits of college level coursework (with a 2.5 GPA or higher). To participate you must complete the program participation form. Note: Successful completion of the Future Beacon Option does not guarantee admission to the Nursing, Engineering, or Management (Business) programs at UMass Boston. Other majors or programs may also be excluded based on limited availability or special requirements. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Note: Successful completion of the Future Beacon Option does not guarantee admission to the Nursing, Engineering, or Management (Business) programs at UMass Boston. Other majors or programs may also be excluded based on limited availability or special requirements. If you have questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions at 617.287.6100. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Future Beacon Option Bunker Hill Community College Roxbury Community College Future Beacon Option - UMass Boston Continue Your Success Story The Directions for Student Potential (DSP) program is a free, 6-week, pre-admission summer program that prepares you for academic success at UMass Boston by guiding you to improve your college reading, writing, and math skills. It's designed for students who demonstrate the potential to succeed at the college level. Successful completion of the program guarantees you admission to most majors at UMass Boston this fall. DSP students may request on-campus housing for the fall semester (a $300 Housing Reservation Fee is required to begin the fall housing process). Summer housing is available for the 6-week period. Contact SummerHousing@umb.edu for more information. DSP courses provide a solid foundation for your future academic success at UMass Boston. They have been carefully designed to meet the needs of a talented group of culturally and linguistically diverse students. Assessment exams are used to place you in Directions for Student Potential classes most appropriate to your level of academic development. Complete these steps to secure your place in the Directions for Student Potential Program The Directions for Student Potential Program is free! The $250 enrollment deposit is waived. The Directions for Student Potential Program is free! The $250 enrollment deposit is waived. DSP will run June 17 - July 25, Monday through Thursdays in the day or evening. Day classes will run 9:00 a.m. 1:50 p.m. (with a 60-minute break). Classes will operate on-campus. Evening classes will run 4:30 p.m. 8:50 p.m. (with a 40-minute break). Evening classes will operate on a fully remote basis. Students will have the ability to request their preferred modality on the DSP Onboarding Session Registration Form. DSP will run June 17 - July 25, Monday through Thursdays in the day or evening. Yes, this a mandatory program. Students must complete this program in order to enroll as a degree-seeking UMass Boston student for the fall. Yes, this a mandatory program. Students must complete this program in order to enroll as a degree-seeking UMass Boston student for the fall. Students who join this program will have the advantage of working closely with UMass Boston faculty, advisors, and tutors over the summer. Small classes accompanied with College Success Workshops, the opportunity to make new friends and become of member of the UMass Boston community will enhance your college preparedness for the fall. DSP also also offers a special curriculum for ESL (English as a Second Language) students. Students who join this program will have the advantage of working closely with UMass Boston faculty, advisors, and tutors over the summer. Small classes accompanied with College Success Workshops, the opportunity to make new friends and become of member of the UMass Boston community will enhance your college preparedness for the fall. DSP also also offers a special curriculum for ESL (English as a Second Language) students. No, this is not a direct entry program, it is by invitation only. No, this is not a direct entry program, it is by invitation only. The first step to secure your place is to submit your DSP Enrollment Confirmation Form by June 1 (remember, the $250 enrollment deposit is waived). The first step to secure your place is to submit your DSP Enrollment Confirmation Form by June 1 (remember, the $250 enrollment deposit is waived). Your next step, after we have received your DSP Enrollment Confirmation Form, is to take the online ALEKS Math Placement and the online Writing Placement. The links to access each will be emailed to you. Your next step, after we have received your DSP Enrollment Confirmation Form, is to take the online ALEKS Math Placement and the online Writing Placement. The links to access each will be emailed to you. If you wish to be considered for on-campus housing for the fall semester, the first step is to submit your $300 housing reservation fee via Beacon Gateway. Please note that housing is offered on a first-come, first-served basis and is not guaranteed. The deadline to submit your housing reservation fee is June 1. Once we have processed your $300 housing reservation fee you will receive an email to submit your Housing Application (step 2); once this is successfully completed you will receive an email to submit your Housing License Agreement (step 3). All three steps must be completed within specified timeframes to confirm a housing space. If you wish to be considered for on-campus housing for the fall semester, the first step is to submit your $300 housing reservation fee via Beacon Gateway. Please note that housing is offered on a first-come, first-served basis and is not guaranteed. The deadline to submit your housing reservation fee is June 1. Once we have processed your $300 housing reservation fee you will receive an email to submit your Housing Application (step 2); once this is successfully completed you will receive an email to submit your Housing License Agreement (step 3). All three steps must be completed within specified timeframes to confirm a housing space. There will be several DSP Onboarding Sessions offered within May and June. You will be invited to register for one session after you have completed both your online ALEKS Math Placement and your online Writing Placement. Registration and attendance for one DSP Onboarding Session is required. During the Onboarding Session you will meet your classmates, as well as faculty, and you will learn about the expectations for the six-week program. Fall class registration will take place toward the end of the six-week summer program and your faculty advisors will work with you to get you registered for fall classes. There will be several DSP Onboarding Sessions offered within May and June. You will be invited to register for one session after you have completed both your online ALEKS Math Placement and your online Writing Placement. Registration and attendance for one DSP Onboarding Session is required. During the Onboarding Session you will meet your classmates, as well as faculty, and you will learn about the expectations for the six-week program. Fall class registration will take place toward the end of the six-week summer program and your faculty advisors will work with you to get you registered for fall classes. Once we have received your DSP Enrollment Confirmation Form and you have taken the ALEKS Math Placement and the Writing Placement, you will be emailed a link to register for a DSP Onboarding Session. Sessions will be offered in May and June and attendance is required to participate in the DSP Program. Once we have received your DSP Enrollment Confirmation Form and you have taken the ALEKS Math Placement and the Writing Placement, you will be emailed a link to register for a DSP Onboarding Session. Sessions will be offered in May and June and attendance is required to participate in the DSP Program. If you would like to change your major to a non-competitive major you may do so right away by submitting a change of major form. Students who are referred to the DSP program and who successfully complete the 6-week summer program will not be admitted into a competitive program (Nursing, Management, or Engineering). Students may be considered for these programs through the inter-college transfer process. Be sure to speak with your academic advisor about your future educational goals. If you would like to change your major to a non-competitive major you may do so right away by submitting a change of major form. Students who are referred to the DSP program and who successfully complete the 6-week summer program will not be admitted into a competitive program (Nursing, Management, or Engineering). Students may be considered for these programs through the inter-college transfer process. Be sure to speak with your academic advisor about your future educational goals. Students are not required to live on campus for the DSP program, but summer housing is an option. Costs and room types are available through the Summer and Conference Housing website. Students participating in the DSP program will pay the Summer Session I UMass Boston student summer housing rates. Questions about on-campus parking for residential summer students, as well as a summer meal plan should be directed to each office. Students are not required to live on campus for the DSP program, but summer housing is an option. Costs and room types are available through the Summer and Conference Housing website. Students participating in the DSP program will pay the Summer Session I UMass Boston student summer housing rates. Questions about on-campus parking for residential summer students, as well as a summer meal plan should be directed to each office. Yes! Students who complete AP/IB exams or have completed college courses (through a regionally accredited institution) are welcome to submit official test scores and/or official college transcripts to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Transfer credit will be considered upon receipt of official documents. Yes! Students who complete AP/IB exams or have completed college courses (through a regionally accredited institution) are welcome to submit official test scores and/or official college transcripts to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Transfer credit will be considered upon receipt of official documents. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu A Summer Enrichment Program at UMass Boston Frequently Asked Questions How Directions for Student Potential Works What Directions for Student Potential Offers Curriculum Next Steps How much does the program cost? What are the dates? Is the program mandatory? What are the benefits of this program? Can I apply to the Directions for Student Potential Program? How do I secure my place in this program? After I have submitted my DSP Confirmation Form, what do I do? How do I secure on-campus housing for the fall? When and how will I be registered for fall classes? How do I register for a DSP Onboarding Session? How do I change majors, if I didnt get the major I choose? Am I able to live on campus for the summer DSP program? Will you consider AP, IB, or dual enrollment courses for transfer credit? Directions for Student Potential - UMass Boston UMass Bostons Pathway Program provides an opportunity for students to begin their college coursework as a non-degree student. You must be referred to the program and cannot apply for the program. Your admission decision letter would indicate whether you were referred to the program. If referred, you have been invited into this program as you do not currently meet the academic standards for admission to a degree program. Beginning your education at UMass Boston within the Pathway Program will enable you to start your general education requirements as well as a 1-credit University Success course. The general education courses will apply to your degree program if you successfully complete the program and take the next steps upon completion. Read more information about the Pathways Fall 2024. Pathway Program Alumna '22 "At first I was shocked being invited to the Pathway Program. But once I took a step back, I realized it was a good opportunity. Once I completed the program, I felt ready for my next step. The program is an amazing opportunity to become a UMass Boston student." Pathway Program Alumna '20 "The Pathway Program made me feel as if I can be a successful student at UMass Boston. I have been given the opportunity to show my academic strengths to professors who are encouraging and want to see me succeed. The extra emphasis and the support that I received from everyone in the program has led to my success and I am happy to begin my new journey at UMass Boston." Pathway Program Alumna '19 The Pathway Program has given me the second chance and the academic awakening that I needed to be successful. I was given immense support by all of my professors as well as other staff members that has not only led to my completion of the program but of my great academic success in the program. Thank you Pathways! 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Pathway Program Admissions Referral Marcia Martes Maya Chandler Krista Hickey Pathway Program - UMass Boston Congratulations! You're the proud parent of a college-bound student. The Pathway Program is designed for students who, although not meeting the university's direct admissions standards right now, are more than capable of successfully earning a degree. The Pathways Program is designed to support your student in their first semester here at UMass Boston and to help smooth their transition from high school to our university. We recognize that a program like this may be unfamiliar. This FAQ is designed to cover some questions that frequently arise from parents whose students have been referred to the Pathway Program. In order to secure their place in the program, your student will need to log into their Beacon Gateway portal, confirm their participation in the program, and then submit a $250 Enrollment Deposit. We also strongly encourage students and parents/guardians to participate in an information session. Information sessions are offered February-May. In order to secure their place in the program, your student will need to log into their Beacon Gateway portal, confirm their participation in the program, and then submit a $250 Enrollment Deposit. We also strongly encourage students and parents/guardians to participate in an information session. Information sessions are offered February-May. Students who are registered for fall 2024 classes will be billed beginning in late July to early August. Bills are only available electronically in WISER. View Account Activity Make an online payment UMass Boston offers finance-free, no interest payment plans. Learn about enrolling in payment plans For questions pertaining to financial aid or billing, UMass Boston's One Stop has "live chat" Mon-Fri during business hours. For questions pertaining to financial aid or billing, UMass Boston's One Stop has "live chat" Mon-Fri during business hours. WISER is our Student Information System and the way that students access billing, grades, and more. Students will need to grant access to parents or guardians. Watch this tutorial for Granting Access to WISER. University Health Services Information for New Students FERPA is an acronym for the Federal Education Right to Privacy Act. Once your student is 18, we CANNOT discuss your student with you. We cannot say if they are attending their classes and certainly not what their grade is. even if you are paying for it! This is because at 18 students are legally adults. Suggestion: Work with your student before the semester starts to make a communication plan. Ask for copies of the syllabi for each course, which will tell you when essays and papers are due so you can check in with your student. This is especially true if your student will not be living at home with you. If you have concerns, ask the Pathways staff how best to proceed. HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Privacy Act), just as with FERPA, means no one can discuss your students physical or mental health with you once they have turned 18 and this includes University Health Services. HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Privacy Act), just as with FERPA, means no one can discuss your students physical or mental health with you once they have turned 18 and this includes University Health Services. We recommend your student connect with the Ross Center for Disability Services. We recommend your student connect with the Ross Center for Disability Services. Make sure your student has access to any books and materials required for their courses before classes begin. The UMB Bookstore can help you with this and, if budget is a concern, faculty will generally be able to advise you and your student about cost effective alternatives if possible. Buying or renting textbooks rather than having them supplied may be new to you, but not having the materials they need to succeed is one of the quickest ways new students fail. When and doubt, the student should email their instructor from their UMass Boston email with any questions. Make sure your student has access to any books and materials required for their courses before classes begin. The UMB Bookstore can help you with this and, if budget is a concern, faculty will generally be able to advise you and your student about cost effective alternatives if possible. Buying or renting textbooks rather than having them supplied may be new to you, but not having the materials they need to succeed is one of the quickest ways new students fail. When and doubt, the student should email their instructor from their UMass Boston email with any questions. Class Attendance it vital for success. Students must be in class when it meets. Since there are relatively few contact hours for each course, missing one or two is like missing a week or two of class in high school. Class Attendance it vital for success. Students must be in class when it meets. Since there are relatively few contact hours for each course, missing one or two is like missing a week or two of class in high school. Some UMass Boston students work as well as attend classes. Its important to note that students will spend an average of 30 hours per week on their work in addition to attending classes. If you and your student are planning for work exceeding 20 hours/week, speak with the instructor of your University Success course about how best to manage the situation. There are workshops offered and information covered in your courses to assist with this throughout the semester. Some UMass Boston students work as well as attend classes. Its important to note that students will spend an average of 30 hours per week on their work in addition to attending classes. If you and your student are planning for work exceeding 20 hours/week, speak with the instructor of your University Success course about how best to manage the situation. There are workshops offered and information covered in your courses to assist with this throughout the semester. As mentioned, you can anticipate up to 30 hours of studying, class work, assignments etc. weekly for most of the semester. Since college students are expected to spend a lot of hours outside of classes reading, reviewing, and working on assignments, that means they are not free just because they are not in class. As mentioned, you can anticipate up to 30 hours of studying, class work, assignments etc. weekly for most of the semester. Since college students are expected to spend a lot of hours outside of classes reading, reviewing, and working on assignments, that means they are not free just because they are not in class. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Pathway Program - Parent FAQs My child has been referred, what are the next steps? Billing Access to WISER University Health Services What is FERPA and why is it important? How do HIPAA and FERPA relate for college students? My child needs academic accommodations or adjustments. Who should I connect with? What does my child have to do to be prepared to ensure they have what they need to start? What is a piece of advice to best encourage my child throughout the semester? How does my child working while taking a full course load ensure they will succeed? What does study time look like for the upcoming semester? Pathway Program Parent Faqs - UMass Boston Congratulations! You've been referred to the Pathway Program. The Pathway Program is designed for students who have not yet met the University's direct admissions standards, but who we believe are more than capable of successfully earning a degree. The Pathways Program is designed to support you in your first semester here at UMass Boston, and to help smooth your transition from high school to our university. We hope you find the below FAQ helpful. Please be sure to contact the Office of Admissions with any questions you may have. The benefits of completing the program include: Small classes taught by esteemed UMass Boston professors. All of the courses in the Pathway program meet our general education requirements and include College English, History, Sociology and Political Science, and Environmental Science Automatic reactivation of your UMass Boston application (fee will be waived). Guaranteed scholarship for students who meet 3.3 cumulative GPA after their first semester. Scholarship renewable for up to 8 semesters for students who maintain a 3.0 GPA and full-time enrollment. Peer and faculty mentorship throughout program. The benefits of completing the program include: Yes, students in the non-degree Pathway Program are eligible for on-campus housing. Students who wish to apply for on-campus housing will be able to do so by submitting a $300 housing reservation fee (along with a $250 enrollment deposit). Yes, students in the non-degree Pathway Program are eligible for on-campus housing. Students who wish to apply for on-campus housing will be able to do so by submitting a $300 housing reservation fee (along with a $250 enrollment deposit). As a non-degree student, financial aid is not available for the fall semester. However, students who submit a Free Applicant for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) will receive a financial aid award letter for the spring semester allowing you to plan for the academic year. As a non-degree student, financial aid is not available for the fall semester. However, students who submit a Free Applicant for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) will receive a financial aid award letter for the spring semester allowing you to plan for the academic year. As a non-degree student, you will not be considered for a merit scholarship for the fall semester. However, upon successful completion of the fall 13-credit program and with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.3, you will be guaranteed a merit scholarship in the amount of $2,000 per year ($1,000 per semester) within the spring semester. This award is renewable each year up to four years with a minimum sustained GPA of 3.0. As a non-degree student, you will not be considered for a merit scholarship for the fall semester. However, upon successful completion of the fall 13-credit program and with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.3, you will be guaranteed a merit scholarship in the amount of $2,000 per year ($1,000 per semester) within the spring semester. This award is renewable each year up to four years with a minimum sustained GPA of 3.0. The cost of the fall program is estimated to be $3,600 (tuition and fees), nearly half of the amount of our in-state tuition. The cost of the program will be approved in the summer prior to the fall semester by the Board of Trustees. This is the estimated cost for tuition and fees and does not include housing, textbooks, or transportation costs. See more information on housing rates. The cost of the fall program is estimated to be $3,600 (tuition and fees), nearly half of the amount of our in-state tuition. The cost of the program will be approved in the summer prior to the fall semester by the Board of Trustees. This is the estimated cost for tuition and fees and does not include housing, textbooks, or transportation costs. See more information on housing rates. As Pathway student, you will begin your educational journey at UMass Boston as a non-degree student (meaning you will not be a declared major in any college). While you will be a UMass Boston Beacon, you will not be officially accepted into a degree program until you complete the 13-credit program and reactivate your application for the spring semester. You will be able to specify your major within your reactivation application. As Pathway student, you will begin your educational journey at UMass Boston as a non-degree student (meaning you will not be a declared major in any college). While you will be a UMass Boston Beacon, you will not be officially accepted into a degree program until you complete the 13-credit program and reactivate your application for the spring semester. You will be able to specify your major within your reactivation application. Pathway students must earn a minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA to matriculate into the spring semester. Students interested in majoring in Engineering or Management will need to achieve a minimum 2.75 cumulative GPA for consideration. Students will not be considered for nursing for the spring semester. Students interested in nursing are encouraged to work with their academic advisor to continue their path forward to apply for our Nursing program for the following academic year. Pathway students must earn a minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA to matriculate into the spring semester. Students interested in majoring in Engineering or Management will need to achieve a minimum 2.75 cumulative GPA for consideration. Students will not be considered for nursing for the spring semester. Students interested in nursing are encouraged to work with their academic advisor to continue their path forward to apply for our Nursing program for the following academic year. Log into your Beacon Gateway and click on the Admissions Status tab. After reviewing your Pathway Decision Letter you should confirm your attendance in the program by filling out your Confirmation Form and then submitting your $250 Enrollment Deposit. Log into your Beacon Gateway and click on the Admissions Status tab. After reviewing your Pathway Decision Letter you should confirm your attendance in the program by filling out your Confirmation Form and then submitting your $250 Enrollment Deposit. Yes, the program offers built-in resources including an academic advisor as well as a peer mentor. Qualified students are also eligible to receive academic accommodations or adjustments through our Ross Center. Academic support services are also available within most subject areas. Yes, the program offers built-in resources including an academic advisor as well as a peer mentor. Qualified students are also eligible to receive academic accommodations or adjustments through our Ross Center. Academic support services are also available within most subject areas. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Pathway Program - Student FAQs What are the benefits of completing the Pathway Program? Is on-campus housing available for Pathway students? Can I use financial aid for the program? Will I be considered for a merit scholarship? What is the cost of the program? I did not get admitted into the major I want. How do I change my major? What do I have to do to be admitted to the major I want? How do I join the Pathway program? I have a learning disability or struggled in high school, is assistance available for me as a non-degree student? Pathway Program Student Faqs - UMass Boston Whether you are applying as a first-year, or planning to transfer from another university or college, you can find a home at UMass Boston. Applying as an undergraduate student at UMass Boston gives you access to so many thingssocial, educational and cultural programs like concerts and lectures, internships and service volunteer opportunities, more than 100 student clubs and organizations to choose from, and critical support from faculty and peers in Success Communities in each of our colleges. With more than 80 undergraduate degree programs, UMass Boston welcomes your perspective (over 2,000 international students from 136 countries, speaking more than 40 languages) to those of so many others (16,000 undergraduate and graduate students from a wide diversity of local and international backgrounds) to enhance the educational experience for all. And, despite a large student body, our classes are relatively small (averaging only about 28 students), so individual attention, focus, and achievement are realities. Begin your journey toward joining UMass Boston as a first-year or a transfer student. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Apply as an International Undergraduate Student Apply As a International Student - UMass Boston Studying abroad can be an incredibly valuable experience, allowing you to see the world and to learn from new perspectives. International students seeking a supportive environment in the United States will feel welcomed at the UMass Boston, where diversity, exploration, and community are key elements of our mission. Here are a few places to start. Undergraduate applicants can email the Office of Undergraduate Admissions or call locally at 617.287.6100. Graduate applicants are encouraged to seek application information from graduate.admissions@umb.edu or locally at 617.287.6400. For information about individual graduate programs, please contact the appropriate program office or director directly. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Info for International Students Questions? Resources & Information - UMass Boston If you seek admission to UMass Boston as an international student, we strongly encourage you to apply online by submitting either the UMass Boston Application or the Common Application: UMass Boston Web Application Common Application Please be sure to send us your application and all required materials by the posted international application deadline. If you experience any technical problems with the application, please email us immediately at undergrad.admissions@umb.edu. As a prospective international first-year student, you are required to submit all of the following materials in order to be considered for admission: All supporting materials should be mailed to: UMass Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 All UMass Boston applicants are asked to submit a personal essay. It gives you the opportunity to present yourself in a way that grades and test scores cannot. Our admissions counselors use your essay to determine your ability to organize your thoughts and express yourself clearly. Your essay may also be used to consider you for the Honors College and/or any scholarship opportunities for which you may qualify. Please select one of the following questions and write an essay of about 500 words: Evaluate a significant experience, achievement, risk you have taken, or ethical dilemma you have faced and its impact on you. Discuss some issue of personal, local, national, or international concern and its importance to you. Indicate a person who has had a significant influence on you, and describe that influence. Describe a character in fiction, a historical figure, or a creative work (as in art, music, science, etc.) that has had an influence on you, and explain that influence. A range of academic interests, personal perspectives, and life experiences adds much to the educational mix. Given your personal background, describe an experience that illustrates what you would bring to the diversity in a college community or an encounter that demonstrated the importance of diversity to you. Some other topic of your choice. All UMass Boston applicants are asked to submit a personal essay. It gives you the opportunity to present yourself in a way that grades and test scores cannot. Our admissions counselors use your essay to determine your ability to organize your thoughts and express yourself clearly. Your essay may also be used to consider you for the Honors College and/or any scholarship opportunities for which you may qualify. Please select one of the following questions and write an essay of about 500 words: International students can apply under Test Optional plan without SAT/ACT scores. Be sure to select Test Optional plan on your application. Students whose native language is not English, and who have not completed an English-based curriculum, will be required to submit proof of English Language proficiency. Please refer to the information provided below regarding English Proficiency. All non-native speakers of English must demonstrate English language proficiency. Students can demonstrate proficiency by submitting the following exams: TOEFL (79+) IELTS (6.0+) SAT (Evidence Based Reading & Writing (ERWS) component of 480+) ACT (Reading and English component scores totaling 34) Duolingo English Test (105+) UMass Boston must receive your official test scores directly from the testing agency. You may request scores be sent to UMass Boston at the time you register for the test. If you have already taken the test, you may request official scores by contacting the College Board, ACT, TOEFL, IETLS, or Duolingo directly. The UMass Boston SAT/TOEFL and IELTS code is 3924 and the ACT code is 1925. Students who have graduated from high school prior to applying to UMass Boston will be required to submit the following credentials based on the country of education: United Kingdom and other British-modeled curriculum international schools: Cambridge O-level, IGCSE and AS/A Level certificates France: Final French Baccalaureate Germany: German Abitur Caribbean: Caribbean CSEC/CXC and CAPE Uganda: Uganda Ordinary and Advanced Examination certificate Lebanon: Lebanese Baccalaureate India: Indian Secondary and Higher Secondary Examination Certificate and statement of marks Pakistan: Pakistan Secondary and Intermediate Examination certificates Bangladesh: Bangladesh Secondary and Intermediate Examination certificates Nepal: Nepal Secondary and Intermediate Examination certificates West Africa: West African Examination certificate and detailed scratch card information Ethiopia: Ethiopia General Secondary School Leaving Examination Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Tajikistan: Certificate of Completion of General Secondary Education with marks South Africa: National Examination Certificate Cameroon: Cameroon French Baccalaureate or Cameroon Ordinary and Advanced Level examination certificates Students who have graduated from high school prior to applying to UMass Boston will be required to submit the following credentials based on the country of education: UMass Boston may offer provisional admission to an international undergraduate applicant who meets all of the admission criteria, but whose TOEFL or IELTS results do not meet the minimum requirements. UMass Boston does not offer conditional admission for nursing, engineering, or management applicants. Students provisionally accepted to the university will be referred to the University Preparation ESL program. UMass Boston may offer provisional admission to an international undergraduate applicant who meets all of the admission criteria, but whose TOEFL or IELTS results do not meet the minimum requirements. Once you have been accepted to the UMass Boston, you will receive detailed instructions from International Student and Scholars Services (ISSS). They will contact you about submitting documents necessary for I-20 Certificate Eligibility issuance. Once you have been accepted to the UMass Boston, you will receive detailed instructions from International Student and Scholars Services (ISSS). They will contact you about submitting documents necessary for I-20 Certificate Eligibility issuance. First year students are automatically considered for UMass Boston merit scholarship aid based on their admissions application. International students with a 3.3 GPA or higher are considered for a merit scholarship of up to $5,000 annually. These scholarships are not available to students entering through partnership programs. First year students are automatically considered for UMass Boston merit scholarship aid based on their admissions application. International students with a 3.3 GPA or higher are considered for a merit scholarship of up to $5,000 annually. These scholarships are not available to students entering through partnership programs. Estimated Expenses for the 2023 Academic Year Tuition: $36,145 Fees (including health insurance): $4,929 Living Expenses and Meals: $16,440 Personal Expenses: $800 Total: $58,750 Estimated Expenses for the 2023 Academic Year 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Apply as an International First-Year Deadlines International Application Requirements Essay Requirement SAT / ACT Scores English Proficiency Testing Requirements International Transcript Requirements Provisional Admission Obtaining an I-20 International Scholarships Cost of Attendance for International Students International First-Year Student - UMass Boston You are an international transfer applicant if you have attended one or more post-secondary institutions after graduating from high school or receiving your GED, regardless of the number of credits earned. We strongly encourage you to apply online by completing and submitting either the UMass Boston Application or the Common Application: UMass Boston Application Common Application Please be sure to send us your application and all required materials by the posted deadline. If you experience any technical problems with the application, please email us immediately. Spring Start - November 1 Fall Start - March 1 As a prospective international student, you are required to submit all of the following materials in order to be considered for admission: See below for further details about each of these requirements. All documents should be mailed to: UMass Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 All UMass Boston applicants are asked to submit a personal essay. This gives you the opportunity to present yourself in a way that grades and test scores cannot. Our admissions counselors will use your essay to evaluate your ability to organize your thoughts and express yourself clearly. The admission essay may also be used to consider you for admission to the universitys Honors College or any scholarship opportunities for which you may qualify. Please select one of the following questions and write an essay of about 500 words: Evaluate a significant experience, achievement, risk you have taken, or ethical dilemma you have faced, and its impact on you. Discuss some issue of personal, local, national, or international concern and its importance to you. Describe a person who has had a significant influence on you, and describe that influence. Select a character in fiction, a historical figure, or a creative work (as in art, music, science, etc.) that has had an influence on you, and explain that influence. Remembering that a range of academic interests, personal perspectives, and life experiences adds much to the educational mix. Given your personal background, describe an experience that illustrates what you would bring to the diversity in a college community, or an encounter that demonstrated the importance of diversity to you. Another topic of your choice. All UMass Boston applicants are asked to submit a personal essay. This gives you the opportunity to present yourself in a way that grades and test scores cannot. Our admissions counselors will use your essay to evaluate your ability to organize your thoughts and express yourself clearly. The admission essay may also be used to consider you for admission to the universitys Honors College or any scholarship opportunities for which you may qualify. Please select one of the following questions and write an essay of about 500 words: UMass Boston requires an official, year-by-year statement of grades or official transcript be sent directly to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions by all colleges and/or universities you have attended. If your transcripts are not modeled on the American system, a professional course-by-course evaluation of your international academic coursework will also be required. To obtain such an evaluation, please contact one of the following organizations: World Education Services (WES) Center for Educational Documentation (CED) Educational Credential Evaluators, Inc. (ECS) National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) The Evaluation Company - UMass Boston partners with The Evaluation Company (formerly known as SpanTran) to provide a streamlined application for evaluating your credentials UMass Boston requires an official, year-by-year statement of grades or official transcript be sent directly to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions by all colleges and/or universities you have attended. If your transcripts are not modeled on the American system, a professional course-by-course evaluation of your international academic coursework will also be required. To obtain such an evaluation, please contact one of the following organizations: Transfer applicants may be awarded credit for courses completed either at another U.S. college or university that is regionally accredited, or from a post-secondary institution outside the U.S. and approved by the government or ministry of education in its home country. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will determine the number of credits and courses a student may transfer from previously attended institutions. As a transfer applicant, you may also be required to submit college/university course descriptions or syllabi from previously attended institutions for the purpose of performing a transfer-credit evaluation. If the official transcripts of your academic record are not in English, you will also be required to send English translations validated by a certified public translator. If you are not a native speaker of English, you are required to demonstrate your English language proficiency in one or more of the following ways: SAT-I ERWS score if you have under 12 college credits. Non-native speakers with a SAT-I ERWS score of 480 or higher do not need to take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Transcript from college or university attended in the U.S. that shows completion of First-year English Composition class with a grade of "B" or higher. University transfers so qualified can be exempt from taking the TOEFL TOEFL with minimum score of 79 on the internet-based test or minimum score of 213 on the computer-based test or a minimum of 550 on the paper-based option. IELTS with minimum score of 6.0. Duolingo English Test (105+) You must submit official scores directly from the testing agency. The school code (CEEB code) for the University of Massachusetts Boston is 3924. Demonstrating English proficiency does not guarantee admission but is necessary for full admission. If you are not a native speaker of English, you are required to demonstrate your English language proficiency in one or more of the following ways: You must submit official scores directly from the testing agency. The school code (CEEB code) for the University of Massachusetts Boston is 3924. Demonstrating English proficiency does not guarantee admission but is necessary for full admission. UMass Boston may offer provisional admission to the international undergraduate applicants that meet all of the admission criteria, but whose TOEFL or IELTS results do not meet the minimum requirements. Students provisionally accepted to the university will be referred to the University Preparation ESL program. UMass Boston may offer provisional admission to the international undergraduate applicants that meet all of the admission criteria, but whose TOEFL or IELTS results do not meet the minimum requirements. Students provisionally accepted to the university will be referred to the University Preparation ESL program. Once you have been accepted to the UMass Boston, you will receive detailed instructions from International Student and Scholars Services (ISSS). They will contact you about submitting documents necessary for I-20 Certificate Eligibility issuance. Once you have been accepted to the UMass Boston, you will receive detailed instructions from International Student and Scholars Services (ISSS). They will contact you about submitting documents necessary for I-20 Certificate Eligibility issuance. Estimated Expenses for the 2023 Academic Year Tuition: $36,145 Fees (including health insurance): $4,929 Living Expenses and Meals: $16,440 Personal Expenses: $800 Total: $58,750 Estimated Expenses for the 2023 Academic Year 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Apply as an International Transfer Deadlines International Application Requirements Essay Requirement College & University Transcripts International Transfer Credits English Language Proficiency Provisional Admission Obtaining an I-20 Cost of Attendance for International Students International Transfer Student - UMass Boston We have several preparatory programs designed to prepare you for college success in the U.S.A. Global Student Success Program Although many international students apply directly to UMass Boston, some candidates may not qualify for direct entry or prefer a more supportive study environment. For those candidates we offer this alternative pathway. The Academy at Harvard Square UMass Boston Campusprep Enrichment (UBCE) Program, offered in partnership with The Academy at Harvard Square (TAHS), is a special program committed to effectively prepare foreign students for undergraduate study at UMass Boston. The academy is an educational institution located in Harvard Square. Tsinghua University Study English on the Tsinghua University campus in Beijing. Youll prepare for the IELTS English proficiency exam, be introduced to U.S.-style higher education, receive expert help with the U.S. application process, and obtain a visa to study abroad. This English Language Program offers nine months of college preparation. Click here about the American Collegiate program. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu International Partnerships International Partnerships - UMass Boston We make transferring credits easy. Learn how your credits will apply to a UMass Boston degree: General Transfer Credit Criteria Watch this quick video guide on how to use our transfer planning worksheets. These sheets are a great resource for students planning ahead. See which courses are required for each of our academic colleges. Use our Transfer Course Database, Transferology, to match UMass Boston courses with your current institution. Or schedule an appointment with one of our transfer counselors to discuss how your transfer credits fit into a specific program. College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences (links below) Exercise and Health Sciences Traditional Nursing College of Science and Math School of the Environment These sheets are a great resource for students planning ahead. See which courses are required for each of our academic colleges. Use our Transfer Course Database, Transferology, to match UMass Boston courses with your current institution. Or schedule an appointment with one of our transfer counselors to discuss how your transfer credits fit into a specific program. Between 70-90 transfer or test credits are eligible to apply toward your bachelors degree at UMass Boston. Students must complete 30 credits at UMass Boston in order to earn a UMass Boston degree. Transfer credits can apply to the following: General Education Requirements College requirements (different colleges may have different graduation requirements) Major Requirements Elective Credit Create a free account with Transferology and get access to our course database. Search to see what classes are eligible to transfer from your current institution to UMass Boston. Run a degree audit to see what courses are required for your major of choice. Note: these results are unofficial. Admitted students will be provided an official transfer credit evaluation upon admission. Students can earn college credit by demonstrating proficiency through Advanced Placement (AP) and College Level Examination Program (CLEP) exams. Students are eligible to transfer in up to 90 test credits. The AP Credit Policy Chart and the CLEP Credit Policy Chart both show the AP and CLEP scores required to receive college credit. To receive credit for AP and CLEP, have The College Board send official copies of your scores to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. UMass Boston's CEEB # is 3924. Your military education and experiences are eligible to transfer in for college-level credit. In order to have your credits evaluated, please make sure to submit official copies of your military transcripts: For the Army, Coast Guard, Navy, and Marines - Joint Services Transcript (JST) For the Air Force - Community College of the Air Force Questions about your transfer credit? Email transfercredits@umb.edu or schedule an individual appointment with one of our transfer counselors. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Transfer Credit Transfer Planning Worksheets How Your Transfer Credits Apply Transfer Course Database Test Credits Military Credits Transfer Credit - UMass Boston Apply online by completing either the UMass Boston Application or the Common Application. UMass Boston Application Common Application Please send all additional application requirements to the following address: UMass Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 Copies of official transcripts can be sent electronically to transcripts@umb.edu from your institution. A transcript is considered official if sent to UMass Boston directly from the institution, either electronically or by mail. Use the tool below to check the status of your application. If we're missing any portion of your application (e.g., your transcripts, essay, SAT scores, letter of recommendation) the status check will let you know. Check Your Application Status Fall Semester (Domestic): August 1 Spring Semester: December 15 Traditional Nursing Program: Spring Start - November 1 Fall Start - March 1 Accelerated Nursing Program: Summer Start - February 1 Fall Start - May 1 Spring Start - September 1 Official college transcripts from all institutions attended If you have completed less than 24 college-level credits Official high school transcript (or GED score report) $60 application fee English Language Proficiency for non-native speakers of English Traditional and Accelerated Nursing applicants should visit the following pages to review specific requirements: Traditional Nursing Application Requirements Accelerated Nursing Application Requirements TEAS exam scores are not required for traditional or accelerated nursing applicants. Both programs are "TEAS Optional." Students who would like their TEAS scores considered are welcome to submit them. We recommend a 75 or higher on each section if submitting scores. If you are transferring from a community college within the state of Massachusetts (except Quincy College) and will be completing an associates degree before enrolling at UMass Boston, you are eligible to apply as a MassTransfer student. When applying, utilize our UMass Boston Application linked above and identify yourself as a MassTransfer student. The $60 application fee will be automatically waived for you. The MassTransfer program brings several benefits, including waiving the application fee, increased transfer credit opportunities, and a tuition discount. Learn more about MassTransfer benefits. Have questions about the application process or need help submitting your application? Book an appointment with one of our transfer counselors. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Apply as a Transfer Student Transferring has never been easier. Check Application Status Deadlines Requirements MassTransfer Questions? Apply as a Transfer Student - UMass Boston Each year, hundreds of students transfer to UMass Boston to pursue a degree in nursing or to advance their nursing careers with a bachelors degree. There are multiple pathways toward a Bachelors of Science in Nursing at UMass Boston. To help you understand which program might be the best fit for you, we welcome you to attend an online Nursing Information Session. *Students on an F-1 Visa are not eligible to apply for the Accelerated Nursing and RN-BS programs. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Transfer Nursing Students Transfer Nursing Students - UMass Boston Over 60 percent of UMass Bostons transfer students come from community college. At UMass Boston, we work very closely with our Massachusetts community college partners to help support you in the transfer process. Within the state of Massachusetts, the MassTransfer program brings many benefits to state community college students looking to complete their degrees at our public universities. These benefits include a portable block of credit, pathway programs, tuition benefits, and more. Each program is designed to help you transfer to a public university and maximize your academic credits. Complete your associate's degree at one of the 15 Massachusetts Community Colleges in the state system. Earn a cumulative GPA of 3.0. Enroll at UMass Boston within one year of completion of your associates degree. Earn a tuition credit of up to $1,714 per year for two years. Credit is only applicable to daytime classes. *Quincy College students check out our dedicated Quincy College page for information about your transfer process. *Quincy College students check out our dedicated Quincy College page for information about your transfer process. Also referred to as the MassTransfer block. Complete these courses at your community college and you will fulfill the majority of UMass Bostons general education curriculum. Learn what courses you need to take by visiting the MassTransfer website. Complete an approved program at one of the Massachusetts community colleges and match it with an approved program at UMass Boston. These programs allow you to dive into your major program earlier and align the courses you are taking at the community college with your major at UMass Boston. See all A2B degree programs by visiting the MassTransfer website. Complete an associates degree in one of the A2B degree programs within 2.5 years, maintain full-time enrollment and a 3.0 GPA, and graduate from UMass Boston within 2 years and youll receive increased savings on your bachelors degree: Freeze on all tuition and mandatory fees 10% rebate off of tuition and mandatory fees MassTransfer Tuition Credit Guaranteed admission (pending space in major or college) Guaranteed transfer of credits Learn more on the MassTransfer website. Students who transfer from a Massachusetts community college without earning an associates are eligible to apply UMass Boston credits toward their community college degree. Reverse Transfer allows students to earn their associate degree while also earning a bachelors degree at UMass Boston at no additional cost. Learn more by visiting the MassTransfer website. Each year, over 600 students transfer from Bunker Hill Community College to UMass Boston. Because UMass Boston welcomes so many Bunker Hill students into our community, we have a dedicated admission counselor who is here to support you in your transfer admission process. Check out our Bunker Hill Community College page to learn more about how we are here to support you in the transfer process. Each year, hundreds of students transfer from Quincy College to UMass Boston. Because UMass Boston welcomes so many Quincy College students into our community, we have a dedicated admission counselor who is here to support you in your transfer admission process. Check out our Quincy College page to learn more about how we are here to support you in the transfer process. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Massachusetts Community College Students MassTransfer Tuition Credit MassTransfer General Education Foundation A2B Degree Commonwealth Commitment Reverse Transfer Bunker Hill Community College Transfers Quincy College Transfers Massachusetts Community College Students - UMass Boston Transferology is a tool that allows students to plan ahead and see what courses will transfer before applying! Through Transferology you can: Please note, these results are unofficial. All admitted students will be provided an official transfer credit evaluation. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Transfer Course Database Transferology Video Guides Transfer Course Database - UMass Boston Once a student is admitted to UMass Boston, transcripts are forwarded over for evaluation. Within 10 business days, students will receive a secure email including a copy of their transfer credit evaluation (TCE). Here is a guide to understanding your evaluation: Watch this quick video as our transfer staff walk you through understanding your Transfer Credit Evaluation. Make sure you send an official copy of your transcript with the updated coursework to the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Once we receive this transcript, we will process your updated courses and add any transfer credit to your TCE. You will receive an email when your credits are updated. Make sure you send an official copy of your transcript with the updated coursework to the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Once we receive this transcript, we will process your updated courses and add any transfer credit to your TCE. You will receive an email when your credits are updated. When evaluating transfer credit, every effort is made to award students as much transfer credit as possible. If you believe you should receive additional credit, we ask you to submit a Transfer Credit Appeal Form that includes supporting documentation such as a course syllabus. Please note, awarding additional credit is rare. When evaluating transfer credit, every effort is made to award students as much transfer credit as possible. If you believe you should receive additional credit, we ask you to submit a Transfer Credit Appeal Form that includes supporting documentation such as a course syllabus. Please note, awarding additional credit is rare. You should get in contact with a transfer counselor if planning to change your major as you must first be approved that you meet the admission criteria. A transfer counselor will be happy to discuss with you the potential impacts of a major change on your evaluation. You should get in contact with a transfer counselor if planning to change your major as you must first be approved that you meet the admission criteria. A transfer counselor will be happy to discuss with you the potential impacts of a major change on your evaluation. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Understanding Your Transfer Credit Evaluation I have completed additional courses since receiving my TCE. How do I ensure these are added to my evaluation? After reviewing my evaluation, there are some courses that did not transfer that I believe should. Who do I contact about this? I am considering changing my major. How will this impact my transfer credit evaluation? Understanding Your Transfer Credit Evaluation - UMass Boston Students who previously applied to UMass Boston within the last year are welcome to be reconsidered for admission for an upcoming semester. Please follow the instructions below based on the semester you previously applied. Submit a UMass Boston Application and indicate that you previously submitted an undergraduate admissions application. All previously submitted application materials will be added to your new application. Please allow up to 7 business days for processing any previous application materials. Submit the UMass Boston Fast Application using your existing Beacon Gateway credentials. All previously submitted application materials will be added to your new application. Please allow up to 7 business days for processing any previous application materials. Students should follow the application requirements and deadlines when reapplying as a first-year or transfer applicant. Please be sure to submit any updated or new official transcripts. If we are not able to process your reapplication request, an Admissions Counselor will contact you. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Reapplication Process Students Who Applied to Start in 2021 Students Who Applied to Start in 2022 or Later Reapplication Process - UMass Boston To learn more about the program, sign up for an online information session. Visit the Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences for more detailed information about the RN-BS program. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu RN to BS Program Application Requirements Admission Criteria RN to BS Program - UMass Boston *All application materials must be received by the deadline Check out the Accelerated Nursing Prerequisite Guide.pdf to confirm your courses fulfill the requirements. To learn more about the program, sign up for an online information session and review our FAQ guide. Visit the Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences for more detailed information about the Accelerated Nursing program. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Accelerated Nursing Program Application Requirements Admission Criteria Prerequisite Courses Accelerated Nursing Program - UMass Boston Transfer Admissions staff will go over everything you need to know about transferring into the traditional Nursing Program. The following prerequisite courses must be completed prior to beginning the nursing courses (prerequisites may be in progress when applying). Students who do not have all of the prerequisites complete are welcome to apply, but preference will be given to those with the required prerequisites. Required: Recommended but not required: 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Traditional Nursing Program Application Requirements Admission Criteria Prerequisite Courses Prerequisite Course Guides Virtual Traditional Nursing Info Sessions Traditional Nursing Program - UMass Boston Each year, hundreds of students transfer from Quincy College to UMass Boston. They choose UMass Boston for a number of reasonsour location, our academic programs, affordability, and our strong track record in supporting Quincy College students. Weve developed a comprehensive articulation agreement between these schools called Quincy Transfer that provides a streamlined transfer pathway from your associate to bachelors degree. Our goal is to make the transfer process as seamless as possible. We encourage you to take advantage of the resources designed specifically for Quincy College students: Schedule an Individual Appointment Email: michael.parcella@umb.edu Phone: 617.287.6141 Watch our video guide on how to use our Transfer Planning Worksheets College of Education and Human Development College of Liberal Arts College of Management College of Nursing and Health Sciences (links below) Exercise and Health Sciences Traditional Nursing College of Science and Math School of the Environment While Quincy College students can't participate in the MassTransfer programs, no need to worry. UMass Boston and Quincy College created Quincy Transferour own version of an Associate to Bachelors program. Bring your associate degree and general education courses with you by selecting one of the approved programs below. Simply follow the associate degree program at Quincy College and take advantage of additional transfer credit benefits at UMass Boston! While Quincy College students can't participate in the MassTransfer programs, no need to worry. UMass Boston and Quincy College created Quincy Transferour own version of an Associate to Bachelors program. Bring your associate degree and general education courses with you by selecting one of the approved programs below. Simply follow the associate degree program at Quincy College and take advantage of additional transfer credit benefits at UMass Boston! 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Quincy College Transfers Connect with Mike Parcella Quincy College Transfer Planning Worksheets Quincy Transfer and Quincy Gen Ed Transfer Block Quincy College Transfers - UMass Boston UMass Boston is excited to welcome Bunker Hill Community College students to join our community. We have dedicated resources for Bunker Hill Community College students interested in completing their bachelor's degree at UMass Boston and a large community of BHCC students who represent a significant portion of our student population. Our dedicated transfer enrollment counselor has one-on-one appointments available and will be visiting Bunker Hill frequently. Congratulations on taking the next step in your educational career! If you plan to complete your associate's degree before transferring to UMass Boston, here is some information about applying: Apply early. We recommend applying the semester prior to transferring. Submit the MassTransfer Application or the UMass Boston Application Send us official college transcripts from each institution you've attended As a MassTransfer applicant, you are not required to submit an essay, letter of recommendation and fee Applicants to our traditional nursing and accelerated nursing programs should refer to the College of Nursing and Health Sciences for additional application information. Congratulations on taking the next step in your educational career! If you plan to complete your associate's degree before transferring to UMass Boston, here is some information about applying: Applicants to our traditional nursing and accelerated nursing programs should refer to the College of Nursing and Health Sciences for additional application information. Congratulations on taking the next step in your educational career! If you have already taken some college classes and are ready to transfer to UMass Boston for your bachelor's degree, here is what you need to know about applying: Apply early. We recommend applying the semester prior to transferring. Submit the UMass Boston Application or the Common Application (if applying to multiple schools) Send official college transcripts from all institutions attended If you have completed less than 24 transferrable credits you should also submit: Official high school transcript (or GED score report) English Language Proficiency for non-native speakers of English $60 application fee Consider joining us for a Bunker Hill Information Session and we will waive the application fee. Applicants to our traditional nursing and accelerated nursing programs should refer to the College of Nursing and Health Sciences for additional application information. Congratulations on taking the next step in your educational career! If you have already taken some college classes and are ready to transfer to UMass Boston for your bachelor's degree, here is what you need to know about applying: Applicants to our traditional nursing and accelerated nursing programs should refer to the College of Nursing and Health Sciences for additional application information. College of Liberal Arts College of Science and Math College of Management School for the Environment College of Nursing and Health Sciences (links below) Exercise and Health Sciences Traditional Nursing College of Education and Human Development 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Bunker Hill Community College Transfers I will be earning an Associate's Degree prior to transferring I will be transferring without a degree Bunker Hill Transfer Planning Worksheets Bunker Hill Community College Transfers - UMass Boston UMass Boston partners closely with community colleges within the state of Massachusetts to facilitate a seamless transfer process. Articulation Agreements are partnerships that are designed to support the transfer from community colleges to UMass Boston. The majority of our agreements can be found through the MassTransfer program. You can learn more about these qualifying programs by visiting the MassTransfer website. In addition to our MassTransfer programs, UMass Boston has additional articulation agreements and special partnerships that can be reviewed below. Transfer Enrollment Counselor Collaboration Agreement Associate of Science in Nursing to Bachelor of Science in Nursing Associate in Science in Environmental Science to Bachelor of Science Environmental Science Associate of Science in Nursing to Bachelor of Science in Nursing Quincy College Articulation Agreement Community Development BA Associate of Science in Nursing to Bachelor of Science in Nursing Articulation Agreement Massasoit Community College 2024 Associate of Science in Nursing to Bachelor of Science in Nursing Associate of Science in Nursing to Bachelor of Science in Nursing RCC and UMB Community Development Articulation 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Articulation Agreements Bunker Hill Community College Cape Cod Community College Quincy College Bristol Community College Massasoit Community College Springfield Technical Community College Holyoke Community College Roxbury Community College Articulation Agreements - UMass Boston UMass Boston is a university for the times, and The College Tour is a TV show that takes you inside universities. See what host Alex Boylan discovered when when he came to campusfrom our new central quad to the robotics team and our ocean research boat. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston See what it's like to be a Beacon. Episode Segments Episode Intro with Alex Boylan Tour Computer Engineering with Olivia Tour Campus Life & Work Opportunities with Isabella Tour Business Programs with Chirag Tour Nursing with Maisan Tour Disability Services & Academic Support with Rebekkah Tour Student Life & Belonging with Dave Tour Theatre & the Arts with Sam Tour Environmental Studies with Ashanti Tour Athletics & Sport Leadership with Manny Tour Student Groups & Organizations with Kaushar The College Tour - UMass Boston UMass Boston's main campus is located at 100 Morrissey Boulevard, Boston, MA 02125. Below are some useful maps for navigating the campus. For additional tips on reaching campus, see Getting Here. The university runs a regular, free shuttle bus service to campus from the JFK/UMass MBTA stop and the Bayside lot. See the shuttle schedule and route information. You can also track the shuttle online. Shuttle Service is available every day except Thanksgiving, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day. Official UMass Boston Campus Map January 2024 To Campus: Take Interstate 93 South through Boston to Exit 15 (Columbia Road/JFK Library). Take a left at the end of the ramp onto Columbia Road, and then take your first right in the rotary. Follow the University of Massachusetts signs along Columbia Road and Morrissey Boulevard to campus. To the UMass Boston Bayside Lot: Take Interstate 93 South through Boston to Exit 15 (Columbia Road/JFK Library). Take a left at the end of the ramp onto Columbia Road. Go straight into the rotary. Take the second exit (a right) onto Day Blvd. Take your first left onto Mt. Vernon Street. The UMass Boston Bayside Lot is straight ahead, past the DoubleTree, on your left. Take the shuttle bus to campus. To Campus: Take Interstate 93 North to Exit 14 (Morrissey Boulevard/JFK Library) and follow Morrissey Boulevard north to campus. When driving to campus from the south please take note of up-to-date parking information that is displayed on a large electronic sign on Morrissey Blvd. North before you get to the campus entrance. This sign will help you make informed decisions about where to park for the day. To the UMass Boston Bayside Lot: Follow Morrissey Blvd., passing the front of BC High School instead of turning onto the campus. Turn right at the first intersection to Mt. Vernon Street. The UMass Boston Bayside Lot will be on your left. Take the shuttle bus to campus. To Campus: Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Interstate 90) east to Interstate 93. Take I-93 South one mile to Exit 15 (JFK Library/South Boston/Dorchester). Take a left at the end of the ramp onto Columbia Road, and then take your first right in the rotary. Follow the University of Massachusetts signs along Columbia Road and Morrissey Boulevard to campus. To the UMass Boston Bayside Lot: Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Interstate 90) east to Interstate 93. Take I-93 South one mile to Exit 15 (JFK Library/South Boston/Dorchester). Take a left at the end of the ramp onto Columbia Road. Go straight into the rotary. Take the second exit (a right) onto Day Blvd. Take your first left onto Mt. Vernon Street. The UMass Boston Bayside Lot is straight ahead, past the DoubleTree, on your left. Take the shuttle bus to campus. Rates vary depending on location and duration and are subject to change. Prepaid passes are also available for students, faculty, and staff at discounted rates. Please contact the Office of Transportation Services (second floor, Quinn Administration Building) for information about multipark, monthly, and semester passes at 617.287.5041. Bike racks are available at multiple on-campus locations and indicated on the Campus Map. Bikes are also available for rental, seasonally, at the Hubway bike-sharing kiosk, located by the Integrated Sciences Complex along University Drive West. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Campus Maps Directions By Car Public Transportation Campus Shuttle Bus From the North From the South From the West Parking Fees By Bike Maps - UMass Boston 50 Park Plaza at Arlington Street, Boston, MA 02116. Located just 3 miles from campus is the newly branded Hilton Boston Park Plaza. Originally opened in 1927, this Four Diamond hotel is a landmark in the heart of the city. Within walking distance to most of the citys sites and attractions, special on-site amenities, and fresh dining options for an authentic Boston experience. To book the UMass Boston preferred rate, go to Hilton.com and enter in Corporate Code #2693824. 240 Mt. Vernon Street, Boston, MA 02125. The closest hotel to the campus. Just a five-minute walk from the JFK/UMass Station, the Harborwalk and Carson Beach are a half-mile away. Multiple dining options on-site, including Starbucks. Ask about the complimentary shuttle to Logan International Airport. To book the UMass Boston preferred rate, go to Hilton.com and enter in Corporate Code #0002702479. The Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel is a AAA Four Diamond award-winner and is less than three miles from Logan International Airport. Crosstown Center, 811 Massachusetts Avenue, Boston, MA 02118. Call 617.445.6400. 69 Boston Street, Boston, MA 02125. Please call 617.288.3030 and request the UMass Boston corporate rate. 900 Morrissey Blvd., Boston, MA 02122. Located one mile from campus. Please call 617.287.9100 and request the UMass Boston rate. 40 Mt. Hood Road, Boston, MA 02135. Featuring 20% off for UMass Boston students and faculty, parking at $20 per day, complimentary continental breakfast. Please call 617.566.6260 63 R Boston Street, Boston, MA 02125. Offers complimentary airport shuttle. Please call 617.436.8200 Flipkey.com is a Boston-based company with vacation rental properties in and around the city. Through Flipkey, you can check rates and availability, read trusted reviews, and even book your stay online. These alternative accommodations are perfect for those seeking more space, privacy, and independence than the standard hotel can provide. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Where to Stay Where To Stay - UMass Boston Graduate Application UMass Boston's Office of Graduate Admissions prefers receiving electronic transcripts via Parchment or National Student Clearinghouse (NSC). Please ensure that transcripts are directed to "UMass Graduate Admissions Only" via Parchment and "Graduate" via NSC. For international credentials, official transcript copies can be electronically sent to gadocs@umb.edu directly from your institution. An official transcript is one sent to UMass Boston directly from the institution, either electronically or by mail. If an applicant has completed a study abroad program earning more than 6 credits, and these courses and grades are documented on their degree-seeking institutions transcript, a separate study abroad transcript is not required If you are a current student or alumnus of UMass Boston, the Office of Graduate Admissions will request your official transcript on your behalf. If you need to submit other hardcopy materials or cannot send materials to a P.O. Box, you can send materials directly to our office (please allow for additional processing time): UMass Boston Graduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Use the tool below to check the status of your application. If we're missing any portion of your application (e.g., your transcripts, essay, SAT scores, letter of recommendation) the status check will let you know. Check Your Application Status After submitting your application, you should have received an email with log-in information to your personal UMass Boston portal. A minimum, cumulative GPA of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale (or international equivalent) in all undergraduate work. Please note that some programs may require a supplemental list of coursework and/or discipline specific GPA calculation. Please review your program's requirements to confirm. A minimum, cumulative GPA of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale (or international equivalent) in all undergraduate work. Please note that some programs may require a supplemental list of coursework and/or discipline specific GPA calculation. Please review your program's requirements to confirm. At the time of enrollment, a bachelors degree from a regionally accredited U.S. institution of recognized standing or an international equivalent. International applicants must submit evidence that they have completed the equivalent of a regionally accredited, U.S. university-level bachelors degree program. Most international 3-year degrees, including the Indian Bachelor of Arts, Sciences and Commerce degrees, are not considered to be equivalent. At the time of enrollment, a bachelors degree from a regionally accredited U.S. institution of recognized standing or an international equivalent. International applicants must submit evidence that they have completed the equivalent of a regionally accredited, U.S. university-level bachelors degree program. Most international 3-year degrees, including the Indian Bachelor of Arts, Sciences and Commerce degrees, are not considered to be equivalent. The nonrefundable application fee is $75. No application fee for UMass Boston alumni! UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. The nonrefundable application fee is $75. No application fee for UMass Boston alumni! UMass Boston alumni and current students that plan to complete degree requirements prior to graduate enrollment can submit the application without paying the application fee. Official transcripts for all institutions where you have earned more than 6 credits. Most transcripts, from an institution in the US, can be requested electronically through Parchment or NSC. For international credentials, official transcripts can be sent electronically to gadocs@umb.edu directly from your institution. An official transcript is one sent to UMass Boston directly from the institution, either electronically or by mail. Original hardcopy transcripts must be sealed in an envelope from the issuing institution. Original hardcopy transcripts must be sealed in an envelope from the issuing institution. Official transcripts for all institutions where you have earned more than 6 credits. Most transcripts, from an institution in the US, can be requested electronically through Parchment or NSC. For international credentials, official transcripts can be sent electronically to gadocs@umb.edu directly from your institution. An official transcript is one sent to UMass Boston directly from the institution, either electronically or by mail. Original hardcopy transcripts must be sealed in an envelope from the issuing institution. Original hardcopy transcripts must be sealed in an envelope from the issuing institution. Some programs require official GRE or GMAT test scores. Please review program requirements to confirm. Applicants who completed undergraduate coursework outside of the United States may be required to submit English proficiency test results, even if they are permanent residents or citizen of the U.S. Please review the international applicant page. UMass Bostons institution code is 3924. We can only accept official score reports sent electronically or in hardcopy directly from the testing agency. In accordance with Massachusetts state law, Office of Graduate Studies and Graduate Admissions policy permits residents of Massachusetts who have been diagnosed as developmentally disabled (including those with specific language disabilities, such as dyslexia, but not including those whose sole disability is blindness) to request a waiver of the requirement to submit GRE, GMAT, or MAT scores. To qualify for a waiver, an applicant must submit documentation of their disability. Some graduate programs require an alternative mode of assessment (e.g., a writing sample) in lieu of the standardized test score. For information, contact your program of interest. The number of letters required varies by program. Please review program requirements. The recommenders you identify will receive an email with instructions upon submission of the online application. Typically, one or more letters from former professors familiar with your academic abilities provide the strongest recommendations. Recommenders should have worked closely with the applicant in an academic, professional, or community service setting. Letters should not be written by friends or family members of the applicant. Letters should focus on the applicants abilities and past academic performance, while also indicating an ability to effectively complete graduate-level coursework. The statement of purpose is your opportunity to show the graduate admissions committee why you wish to pursue graduate study, as well as your specific interests and goals. In general the first part of your statement (about 300 words) shares your reason for wanting to attend graduate school while the second part (about 1200 word) indicates your specific interest and the kind of work you would like to do in your intended field. The program to which you are applying may have other instructions regarding the content and nature of this statement. You will be able to upload your Statement of Purpose to your application in .doc or .pdf form. The statement of purpose is your opportunity to show the graduate admissions committee why you wish to pursue graduate study, as well as your specific interests and goals. In general the first part of your statement (about 300 words) shares your reason for wanting to attend graduate school while the second part (about 1200 word) indicates your specific interest and the kind of work you would like to do in your intended field. The program to which you are applying may have other instructions regarding the content and nature of this statement. You will be able to upload your Statement of Purpose to your application in .doc or .pdf form. A current resume/CV is required as a part of the admissions application process. Please submit a detailed and concise resume summarizing your education history, academic achievements, professional experiences, extracurricular activities, volunteer work or community involvement, and relevant skills that demonstrate your readiness for graduate study. Consider including an overview of research experience, affiliations, publications, certifications, presentations, leadership experience, and other pertinent professional skills. A current resume/CV is required as a part of the admissions application process. Please submit a detailed and concise resume summarizing your education history, academic achievements, professional experiences, extracurricular activities, volunteer work or community involvement, and relevant skills that demonstrate your readiness for graduate study. Consider including an overview of research experience, affiliations, publications, certifications, presentations, leadership experience, and other pertinent professional skills. Admission is granted only for the semester requested and cannot be guaranteed for future semesters. Admission to graduate study does not automatically indicate approval of candidacy for a degree. Please refer to the program-specific requirements for more. Have questions about the application process or need help submitting your application? Contact graduate.admissions@umb.edu. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Apply as a Graduate Student Take The Next Step Transcripts & Supplemental Materials Check Application Status GPA Bachelor's Degree Online Application & Fee Official Transcripts Test Scores Letters of Recommendation Statement of Purpose Resume / CV Questions? Apply as a Graduate Student - UMass Boston We understand the importance of financial assistance and practical experience in your field of study. Discover how to secure a graduate assistantship, explore available funding opportunities tailored for graduate students, and familiarize yourself with the necessary requirements to successfully earn your graduate degree at UMass Boston. We are dedicated to helping you thrive academically and professionally as you pursue your advanced studies. These positions are assigned by the student's department/program and are subject to the agreement between UMass Boston and UAW/Graduate Employees Organization (GEO). All requests and inquiries for graduate assistantships should be directed to the Graduate Program Director (GPD) in a department/program. AY24-25 Graduate Assistantship Stipend Guide At UMass Boston, we recognize the significance of research in advancing knowledge and fostering innovation. That's why we offer Graduate Research Funds, empowering graduate students to pursue their research goals and make meaningful contributions to their respective fields. Through these funds, you can access financial support for research-related expenses, including data collection, travel to conferences, and specialized equipment. All requirements for any advanced degrees to be awarded in a given degree-granting period (December, May, August) must be completed by the degree date. Your degree application is due in the Registrars Office by the published deadline. In addition, the $200 Graduation Processing Fee will be billed to your student account through the Bursar's office and can be paid using your previous payment methods. Contact bursar@umb.edu with commencement fee and bill-related questions. The format guidelines for master's theses and doctoral dissertations contain information about the university's standard format for these requirements. This publication is available from each graduate program director, or from the Office of Graduate Studies & Research. The doctoral degree is conferred on graduate students who have met the following requirements: Successful completion of all courses and projects specified by the student's advisor or guidance committee within the guidelines of the candidate's graduate studies program and the Office of Graduate Studies and Research. Satisfactory completion of the foreign language requirements of the candidate's graduate program. Registration for the required number of dissertation credits (see "Graduate Grading Policy"). Passing a preliminary comprehensive or qualifying examination conducted by the program, or successfully completing a qualifying paper. Any student who fails the comprehensive examination may, at the discretion of the examining committee, be permitted a second and final examination. On successful completion of the preliminary examination the student will be admitted to candidacy. As soon as the student has passed the preliminary comprehensive examination and has been admitted to candidacy, the graduate program director of the candidate's program shall recommend to the dean of Graduate Studies the names of at least three members of the faculty to serve as a working dissertation committee. At least two of the faculty so nominated shall be from the candidate's program. Each dissertation committee must have one external member designated by the dean of Graduate Studies as the dean's representative. At the option of the program, the dean's representative may serve as a working member from the inception of the committee, or may participate only at the time of the defense. In either case, the dean's representative is a voting member of the committee and must sign the dissertation. Specific information is available from each program director. Passing a final (at least partly oral) examination conducted by the dissertation committee. This examination shall be primarily concerned with, but not necessarily limited to, the candidate's dissertation. This examination shall be scheduled when all the dissertation committee members and the Office of Graduate Studies agree that the dissertation is sufficiently complete to undergo defense; approval of the dissertation, passing the defense, and/or recommending the degree are not implied by scheduling this examination. It shall be the responsibility of the working dissertation committee to approve the dissertation project, to supervise its execution, and to arrange for the final examination of the student. All members of the committee must tentatively approve the dissertation before the final oral examination is scheduled, and agree that it is time for this examination to be held. Most programs require the student to deliver a public lecture on his or her research, usually on the day the final oral examination takes place. The final oral examination itself is attended by the candidate, the committee, and any invited guests. Only the committee members may vote, and the student can pass the final oral examination only with their unanimous approval. If, at the final examination, two members cast negative votes, the candidate will be informed that he or she has not passed the examination. If there is only one negative vote, the degree will be held up pending satisfactory resolution of the objections by the student and the dissenting member of the committee. Final program approval is represented by the signature of the graduate program director. Documentation supplied by the graduate program director to the Office of Graduate Studies of each of the following stages in a doctoral student's progression. Those marked with an asterisk must be approved in writing by the Dean of Graduate Studies: acceptance to candidacy formation of dissertation committee* acceptance of dissertation proposal declaration of intention to defend dissertation* successful defense completion of the dissertation according to the University's guidelines for dissertation preparation* a cumulative GPA of 3.0 in all UMass Boston courses counting toward the degree. if required by the candidate's program, a period of full-time residency at the University. The residency consists of a minimum of two consecutive semesters, either a fall-spring or a spring-fall sequence. In order to qualify for full-time status, a student must be enrolled for nine or more credits per semester, either in regular graduate courses or for doctoral dissertation credits (899) or in some combination of both. To be in residence a student must be physically present on the campus for some part of each week during the semester. The doctoral degree is conferred on graduate students who have met the following requirements: Successful completion of all courses and projects specified by the student's advisor or guidance committee within the guidelines of the candidate's graduate studies program and the Office of Graduate Studies and Research. Satisfactory completion of the foreign language requirements of the candidate's graduate program. Registration for the required number of dissertation credits (see "Graduate Grading Policy"). Passing a preliminary comprehensive or qualifying examination conducted by the program, or successfully completing a qualifying paper. Any student who fails the comprehensive examination may, at the discretion of the examining committee, be permitted a second and final examination. On successful completion of the preliminary examination the student will be admitted to candidacy. As soon as the student has passed the preliminary comprehensive examination and has been admitted to candidacy, the graduate program director of the candidate's program shall recommend to the dean of Graduate Studies the names of at least three members of the faculty to serve as a working dissertation committee. At least two of the faculty so nominated shall be from the candidate's program. Each dissertation committee must have one external member designated by the dean of Graduate Studies as the dean's representative. At the option of the program, the dean's representative may serve as a working member from the inception of the committee, or may participate only at the time of the defense. In either case, the dean's representative is a voting member of the committee and must sign the dissertation. Specific information is available from each program director. Passing a final (at least partly oral) examination conducted by the dissertation committee. This examination shall be primarily concerned with, but not necessarily limited to, the candidate's dissertation. This examination shall be scheduled when all the dissertation committee members and the Office of Graduate Studies agree that the dissertation is sufficiently complete to undergo defense; approval of the dissertation, passing the defense, and/or recommending the degree are not implied by scheduling this examination. It shall be the responsibility of the working dissertation committee to approve the dissertation project, to supervise its execution, and to arrange for the final examination of the student. All members of the committee must tentatively approve the dissertation before the final oral examination is scheduled, and agree that it is time for this examination to be held. Most programs require the student to deliver a public lecture on his or her research, usually on the day the final oral examination takes place. The final oral examination itself is attended by the candidate, the committee, and any invited guests. Only the committee members may vote, and the student can pass the final oral examination only with their unanimous approval. If, at the final examination, two members cast negative votes, the candidate will be informed that he or she has not passed the examination. If there is only one negative vote, the degree will be held up pending satisfactory resolution of the objections by the student and the dissenting member of the committee. Final program approval is represented by the signature of the graduate program director. Documentation supplied by the graduate program director to the Office of Graduate Studies of each of the following stages in a doctoral student's progression. Those marked with an asterisk must be approved in writing by the Dean of Graduate Studies: CAGS programs provide professional development for educators beyond the master's degree level. All credits must be earned at the University, and candidates must maintain a 3.0 GPA. Students interested in pursuing the CAGS should contact the appropriate graduate program director. CAGS programs provide professional development for educators beyond the master's degree level. All credits must be earned at the University, and candidates must maintain a 3.0 GPA. Students interested in pursuing the CAGS should contact the appropriate graduate program director. The basic requirements for the master's degree are given below. Students should consult the individual program descriptions for further requirements. Each degree candidate must earn at least 30 graduate credits. Each master's program will include as a graduation requirement a capstone experience that may consist of, but need not be limited to, a thesis, paper, written or oral comprehensive exam, or a seminar. In the case of the thesis option, the work will be evaluated by a committee of at least three members, two of whom must be UMass Boston faculty. In the case of other options, at least one faculty member other than the primary instructor must be involved in assessing the quality of the student's work. Some programs require that the capstone be a thesis, which shall be under the supervision of a committee, comprising members recommended by the graduate program director and approved by the Dean of Graduate Studies. The thesis shall follow the University's guidelines for thesis preparation, and shall require a formal defense. The thesis must be approved by all members of the committee, the graduate program director acting on behalf of the program, and the Dean of Graduate Studies. Students submitting a thesis may earn up to six credits through independent study, and up to ten credits through the thesis. Some programs may require a general exam in addition to or instead of a capstone or thesis. Foreign language requirements are determined by each master's degree program. Course credits used by the student to fulfill the requirements for a master's degree may not be used by the student to fulfill the requirements for any other master's degree at this University. The candidate must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 in all UMass Boston courses counting toward the degree. The basic requirements for the master's degree are given below. Students should consult the individual program descriptions for further requirements. Each degree candidate must earn at least 30 graduate credits. Each master's program will include as a graduation requirement a capstone experience that may consist of, but need not be limited to, a thesis, paper, written or oral comprehensive exam, or a seminar. In the case of the thesis option, the work will be evaluated by a committee of at least three members, two of whom must be UMass Boston faculty. In the case of other options, at least one faculty member other than the primary instructor must be involved in assessing the quality of the student's work. Some programs require that the capstone be a thesis, which shall be under the supervision of a committee, comprising members recommended by the graduate program director and approved by the Dean of Graduate Studies. The thesis shall follow the University's guidelines for thesis preparation, and shall require a formal defense. The thesis must be approved by all members of the committee, the graduate program director acting on behalf of the program, and the Dean of Graduate Studies. Students submitting a thesis may earn up to six credits through independent study, and up to ten credits through the thesis. Some programs may require a general exam in addition to or instead of a capstone or thesis. Foreign language requirements are determined by each master's degree program. Course credits used by the student to fulfill the requirements for a master's degree may not be used by the student to fulfill the requirements for any other master's degree at this University. The candidate must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 in all UMass Boston courses counting toward the degree. Each academic program establishes foreign language requirements for its own advanced degree candidates. The program determines both the number of foreign languages and the level of competency required. A foreign language is defined for this requirement as a language other than the candidate's native tongue, in which there is a significant body of literature relevant to his or her academic discipline. The term "foreign language" does not include computer languages. For information about the College of Education and Human Development, visit their website. Each academic program establishes foreign language requirements for its own advanced degree candidates. The program determines both the number of foreign languages and the level of competency required. A foreign language is defined for this requirement as a language other than the candidate's native tongue, in which there is a significant body of literature relevant to his or her academic discipline. The term "foreign language" does not include computer languages. For information about the College of Education and Human Development, visit their website. Policies and Forms for Theses and Dissertations Standards for the Preparation of Theses and Dissertations at the University of MStandards for the Preparation of Theses and Dissertations at the University of M How to Submit Your Thesis or Dissertation using UMass Boston/ProQuest ETD CGS/UMI Distinguished Dissertation and Masters Thesis Awards [DOC]CGS/UMI Distinguished Dissertation and Masters Thesis Awards [DOC] Enroute Certificate/Degree Completion FormEnroute Certificate/Degree Completion Form Deadlines for Theses and Dissertations Initial Submissions: By 11:59 PM (EST/EDT) on the dates below, you must submit a copy of your defended and revised thesis/dissertation, approved in full for content by your program, to the Office of Graduate Studies (OGS) via the UMass Boston/ProQuest/UMI ETD website. July 20 for an August degree date December 1 for a December degree date April 20 for a May degree date Standards for the Preparation of Theses and Dissertations at the University of M July 20 for an August degree date December 1 for a December degree date April 20 for a May degree date Standards for the Preparation of Theses and Dissertations at the University of M UMass Boston Graduate Studies Campus Center 2nd Floor, Suite 2100 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.4000 graduate.studies@umb.edu 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Finding a Graduate Assistantship Graduate Research Funds Graduating from UMass Boston Graduation Degree Requirements Doctoral Degree Requirements Requirements for the Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study Master's Degree Requirements Foreign Language Requirements Theses and Dissertations Policies and Forms for Theses and Dissertations Deadlines for Theses and Dissertations Graduate Students & Assistantships - UMass Boston As a faculty member, you'll find essential resources to support your role as a graduate program director, including guidelines, forms, and a syllabus template. Additionally, we offer a convenient listing of Research Methods Courses available for cross-registration across collaborating departments. Governance Flow Diagram Governance Flow Committee Members Chair, Professor Andre Maharaj, Applied Behavior Analysis, CEHD Professor Laura Bozeman, Vision Studies, SGISD Professor Silvia Dorado Banacloche, Management, CM Professor Patricia Paugh, Curriculum and Instruction, CEHD Professor Harry Konstantinidis, Economics, CLA Professor Heather MacIndoe, Public Policy and Public Affairs, MGS Professor James Soldner, Rehabilitation Counseling, SGISD Professor Holly Jackson, English, CLA Professor Michael Tlusty, Sustainability and Food Solutions, SFE Professor Phil Gona, Exercise and Health Sciences, MCNHS Professor Brook Moyers, Biology, CSM Professor John Fulton, English, CLA Ex-Officio Dean Bala Sundaram, Graduate Studies Steve Smith, Library Justin Maher, Graduate Studies Spring 2023 Committee Meeting Dates: February 14, 2023; March 21, 2023; April 11, 2023; May 9, 2023 Meetings take place on Tuesdays following the Faculty Council; meetings are usually the second Tuesday of the month. The deadline for material submissions is eight (8) days before the meeting. Proposals should all be on Curriculog - if supplementary materials need to be sent to the Committee, please email them to GSC.Submissions@umb.edu. Resources for programs considering GRE-Optional Admissions: click here Forms and Policies Academic Program Development Academic Program Change Approval Form Academic Program Change Procedures New Academic Programs Recommended Online Course Proposal Elements Course Addition / Course Change Form Seeking Governance Approval Guidelines for Preparing Graduate Course Outlines Guidelines and Definitions Concerning Proposals for the Online Delivery of Graduate Programs Additional Elements in Online Course Proposals Online Graduate Program Approval Process Schedule Intent Form for a Special Topics Course GSC Syllabus Template Pre-Matriculation Waiver Form Meetings take place on Tuesdays following the Faculty Council; meetings are usually the second Tuesday of the month. The deadline for material submissions is eight (8) days before the meeting. Proposals should all be on Curriculog - if supplementary materials need to be sent to the Committee, please email them to GSC.Submissions@umb.edu. Resources for programs considering GRE-Optional Admissions: click here The Graduate Assistant Salary Chart provides employment start and end dates, biweekly salary rates, and the cost of the annual student health premium. Please the AY22-23 Graduate Assistantship Appointments for the Graduate Assistant Salary Chart. For additional information, please contact Simon Haile at Simon.Haile@umb.edu, assistant director of financial management for Research and Graduate Studies. The Graduate Assistant Salary Chart provides employment start and end dates, biweekly salary rates, and the cost of the annual student health premium. Please the AY22-23 Graduate Assistantship Appointments for the Graduate Assistant Salary Chart. For additional information, please contact Simon Haile at Simon.Haile@umb.edu, assistant director of financial management for Research and Graduate Studies. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Supporting Our Faculty Graduate Studies Committee Graduate Assistant Salary Chart Faculty Resources - UMass Boston Declare AMP Intent Apply Accelerated Masters Programs (AMP) allow qualified UMass Boston students to earn a bachelors and a masters degree in as little as five years. Undergraduate students replace general electives with graduate coursework, receive their bachelor's degree, and then matriculate as graduate students to complete their masters degrees. This allows students to leave the university with two degrees in as little as five years. Most applications to begin graduate coursework in the fall are due May 1. Most applications for programs that have spring admission are due December 1. Some programs maintain different application deadlines. We recommend you confirm application deadlines with your program of interest. Program Information Program Director: Harry Konstantinidis Contact: Maureen Boyle, x6950 (College of Liberal Arts) Office: W/5/028 Fall admission only; applications due June 1 Program Information Program Director: Harry Konstantinidis Contact: Maureen Boyle, x6950 (College of Liberal Arts) Office: W/5/028 Fall admission only; applications due June 1 Program Information Program Director: Corinne Etienne, x5760 Office: M-4-454 On-campus program only Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by November 1 Program Information Program Director: Corinne Etienne, x5760 Office: M-4-454 On-campus program only Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by November 1 Program Information Program Director: Elizabeth Brown Contact: Joy C. L. Solon, x5717 (College of Liberal Arts) Office: W/04/15 Fall applications due by March 1; Spring applications due by October 1 UMass Bostons Accelerated Bachelor/Master of Arts in Applied Sociology program is designed for qualified third-year UMass Boston students who want to earn a bachelors and masters degree in as little as five years. Sociology BA Applied Sociology MA Interested AMP students must: Be an undergraduate student with between 60 and 75 credits and a 3.2 min GPA when you apply for our AMP; this means you should have between 75 and 90 credits when starting the program Have taken at least 30 credits from UMass Boston at the time of application For academic advising and program info, contact Graduate Program Director, Liz Brown or sign up for a Zoom meeting. For other program logistics questions, contact Graduate Program Coordinator Joy Solon or sign up for a Zoom meeting. Program Information Program Director: Elizabeth Brown Contact: Joy C. L. Solon, x5717 (College of Liberal Arts) Office: W/04/15 Fall applications due by March 1; Spring applications due by October 1 UMass Bostons Accelerated Bachelor/Master of Arts in Applied Sociology program is designed for qualified third-year UMass Boston students who want to earn a bachelors and masters degree in as little as five years. Sociology BA Applied Sociology MA Interested AMP students must: For academic advising and program info, contact Graduate Program Director, Liz Brown or sign up for a Zoom meeting. For other program logistics questions, contact Graduate Program Coordinator Joy Solon or sign up for a Zoom meeting. Program Information Program Director: Vesela Veleva Contact: gradcm@umb.edu, x7720 (College of Management) Office: M/5/610 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by December 1 Program Information Program Director: Vesela Veleva Contact: gradcm@umb.edu, x7720 (College of Management) Office: M/5/610 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by December 1 Program Information Program Directors: Neil Reilly and Wei Zhang Contact: graduate.chemistry@umb.edu, x6130 (College of Science and Mathematics) Office: Y/3/3230 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by November 1 Program Information Program Directors: Neil Reilly and Wei Zhang Contact: graduate.chemistry@umb.edu, x6130 (College of Science and Mathematics) Office: Y/3/3230 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by November 1 Program Information Program Director: Karen Ross Contact: Leigh Murphy, x7489 (McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies) Office: W/4/128A Fall admission only; applications due June 1 Program Information Program Director: Karen Ross Contact: Leigh Murphy, x7489 (McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies) Office: W/4/128A Fall admission only; applications due June 1 Program Information Program Director: Jeremy Szteiter Contact: cct@umb.edu, x7636 (College of Education and Human Development) Office: W/2/157 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by December 1 Program Information Program Director: Jeremy Szteiter Contact: cct@umb.edu, x7636 (College of Education and Human Development) Office: W/2/157 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by December 1 Program Information Program Director: Michael Tlusty Contact: sfe@umb.edu, x77440 Office: M-2-615 *Before applying to the Accelerated Master's Program in Environmental Science, please email Professor Helen Poynton to go through the pre-approval stage. Program Information Program Director: Michael Tlusty Contact: sfe@umb.edu, x77440 Office: M-2-615 *Before applying to the Accelerated Master's Program in Environmental Science, please email Professor Helen Poynton to go through the pre-approval stage. Program Information Program Director: Kai Zou Contact: gradehs@umb.edu, x73217 Office: S-3-301/31 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by December 1 Program Information Program Director: Kai Zou Contact: gradehs@umb.edu, x73217 Office: S-3-301/31 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by December 1 Program Information Program Director: Jeffrey Stokes Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma, x7338 (Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences) Office: W-03-143 Fall admission only, applications due by June 1 Program Information Program Director: Jeffrey Stokes Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma, x7338 (Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences) Office: W-03-143 Fall admission only, applications due by June 1 Program Information Program Director: Ellen Birchander Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma, x7338 (Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences) Office: W-03-143 Program Information Program Director: Ellen Birchander Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma, x7338 (Manning College of Nursing & Health Sciences) Office: W-03-143 Program Information Contact: Kaitlyn Siner-Cappas, x73070 Office: Bayside 04-423 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by December 1 Program Information Contact: Kaitlyn Siner-Cappas, x73070 Office: Bayside 04-423 Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by December 1 Program Information Program Director: Olivia Weisser Contact: Maureen Dwyer, x6860 (College of Liberal Arts) Office: M/4/623 Fall admissions only; applications due by May 1 Interested AMP History students must: Be a History major Have accrued at least 80 credits (but not more than 90 credits) Have taken at least 30 credits in residence at UMass Boston and at least 3 History courses in residence at UMass Boston Have completed HIST 101 at UMass Boston Have a cumulative 3.3 GPA or higher Have passed the WPE Sit in on a graduate History course before their application is considered complete; please reach out to the Graduate Program Director to arrange a class visit Program Information Program Director: Olivia Weisser Contact: Maureen Dwyer, x6860 (College of Liberal Arts) Office: M/4/623 Fall admissions only; applications due by May 1 Interested AMP History students must: Program Information Program Director: Joseph Brown Contact: Leigh Murphy, x7489 (McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies) Office: W/4/128A Fall admission only - application deadline is June 1 Program Information Program Director: Joseph Brown Contact: Leigh Murphy, x7489 (McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies) Office: W/4/128A Fall admission only - application deadline is June 1 Program Information Program Director: Christopher Martell Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu, x7492 Office: W/1/0077Q Fall applications due June 1; Spring applications due December 1 Program Information Program Director: Christopher Martell Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu, x7492 Office: W/1/0077Q Fall applications due June 1; Spring applications due December 1 Program Information Program Director: Michael Johnson Contact: Jack Li, x6905 (McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies) Office: W/3/412 Fall admission only, applications due June 1 Program Information Program Director: Michael Johnson Contact: Jack Li, x6905 (McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies) Office: W/3/412 Fall admission only, applications due June 1 Program Information Program Director: Michael Johnson Contact: Jack Li, x6905 (McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies) Office: W/3/412 Fall admission only, applications due June 1 Program Information Program Director: Michael Johnson Contact: Jack Li, x6905 (McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies) Office: W/3/412 Fall admission only, applications due June 1 Program Information Program Director: James Soldner Contact: rehabadmissions@umb.edu, x3070 Office: Bayside Campus, 150 Mount Vernon Street, Dorchester/4th floor Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by November 1 Program Information Program Director: James Soldner Contact: rehabadmissions@umb.edu, x3070 Office: Bayside Campus, 150 Mount Vernon Street, Dorchester/4th floor Fall applications due by June 1; Spring applications due by November 1 Students in this program must satisfy all requirements for both degrees. In order to complete the program in five years, students will be expected to complete most, if not all, of the academic requirements for their undergraduate degree by the end of the first semester of the senior or fourth year. Delays to this timeline may impact eligibility for Financial Aid. It is suggested that students begin taking graduate courses toward the masters degree no earlier than the first semester of the junior or third year. AMP participants may receive up to a maximum of 18 Advanced Standing credits to reflect the graduate coursework successfully completed as an undergraduate, reducing the total number of courses required to complete the masters degree. A minimum of 12 credits must be completed during the time that the student is registered as a graduate student. Curriculum plans and courses of study may vary by program. We recommend you consult the Graduate Program Director of your program of interest for more information. In the semester during which the undergraduate requirements are completed, including the overall 120 credit minimum, AMP students should apply for graduation to earn the bachelors degree. When the bachelors degree is awarded, students will matriculate as a graduate student. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Accelerated Masters Programs (AMP) AMP Offerings & Contacts Earn a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in as little as five years. Eligibility Application & Admission Application Deadlines Applied Economics (BA/MA) Applied Linguistics (BA/MA) Applied Sociology (BA/MA) Business Administration (BA/BS to MBA) Chemistry (BS/MS) Conflict Resolution (BA/MA) Critical & Creative Thinking (BA/MA) Environmental Science (BS/MS) Exercise and Health Sciences (BS/MS) Gerontology: Research Policy (BS/MS) Gerontology: Management of Aging Services (BS/MS) Global Inclusion and Social Development (BA/MA) History (BA/MA) International Relations (BA/MA) Middle/Secondary Education Initial Licensure (MEd) Public Administration (BA/MPA) Public Administration: Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy (BA/MPA) Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Curriculum Financial Aid Logistics Accelerated Masters Programs - UMass Boston UMass Boston offers high-quality graduate programs at an incredible value. Use the Cost Calculator to explore estimated total program costs for masters and certificate programs. Results will appear below after you select all three options. Listed tuition rates are estimates based on information for the current academic year (2024-2025) and include mandatory fees and one-time fees. Tuition rates and fees are subject to change. For the most detailed and up-to-date cost information, please visit the Bursars office website. Our financial aid staff are available to answer your questions and guide you through the process. Contact Financial Aid Services at finaid@umb.edu or visit the universitys One Stop page to connect with a representative. In order to be considered for financial assistance, eligible applicants must fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Learn more about: Grants Loans Federal Work-Study Our financial aid staff are available to answer your questions and guide you through the process. Contact Financial Aid Services at finaid@umb.edu or visit the universitys One Stop page to connect with a representative. In order to be considered for financial assistance, eligible applicants must fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Learn more about: UMass Boston supports graduate education primarily through assistantships. Assistantships are not awarded by Financial Aid Services. They are formal service contracts between you and your graduate school department. They may include: a tuition credit a waiver of fees a stipend The number of graduate assistantships are limited based on budget. Contact your Graduate Program Director for more information. Financial Aid Award Packages may be adjusted for students receiving assistantships. Questions about assistantships? Contact finaid@umb.edu. UMass Boston supports graduate education primarily through assistantships. Assistantships are not awarded by Financial Aid Services. They are formal service contracts between you and your graduate school department. They may include: The number of graduate assistantships are limited based on budget. Contact your Graduate Program Director for more information. Financial Aid Award Packages may be adjusted for students receiving assistantships. Questions about assistantships? Contact finaid@umb.edu. Student Employment Services (SES) works with UMass Boston students to assist them in finding on-and-off-campus job opportunities that fit into their busy academic schedules. Learn more about open positions and next steps on our student employment webpage. Questions about student employment opportunities? Contact ses@umb.edu. Student Employment Services (SES) works with UMass Boston students to assist them in finding on-and-off-campus job opportunities that fit into their busy academic schedules. Learn more about open positions and next steps on our student employment webpage. Questions about student employment opportunities? Contact ses@umb.edu. UMass Boston offers several payment options, including a monthly payment plan. For more information, visit the Bursars website. Have questions about the financial aid process or need help submitting your graduate program application? Contact graduate.admissions@umb.edu. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Estimate Your Program Costs Graduate Program Cost Calculator Financing Options Financial Assistance Assistantships Student Employment Payment Information Contact Us Estimate Your Program Costs - UMass Boston UMass Boston welcomes applications from prospective students around the globe. Our students come from 136 different countries. In addition to UMass Bostons general and program-specific graduate application requirements, please review these requirements specifically relevant to international applicants. International applicants must submit evidence that they have completed the equivalent of a regionally accredited, U.S. university-level bachelors degree program. Acceptable documents can include official copies of diplomas, certified final degree certificates, and notation on final transcript of degree and date awarded. Most international four-year degrees are recognized as being equivalent. Most international three-year degrees, including the Indian Bachelor of Arts, Sciences and Commerce degrees, are not considered to be equivalent. If we are unable to determine equivalence, we may require applicants to submit an external evaluation from the Center for Educational Documentation (www.cedevaluations.com). Credential evaluations from other agencies may not be accepted. Credential Evaluation Reports will not be accepted in place of official transcripts. UMass Boston's Office of Graduate Admissions prefers receiving electronic transcripts from U.S. institutions via Parchment or National Student Clearinghouse (NSC). Please ensure that transcripts are directed to "UMass Graduate Admissions Only" via Parchment and "Graduate" via NSC. For international credentials, an official transcript can be sent electronically to gadocs@umb.edu directly from your institution. An official transcript is one sent to UMass Boston directly from the institution, either electronically or by mail. Original hardcopy transcripts must be sealed in an envelope from the issuing institution. We cannot accept scanned or emailed transcripts sent directly by the applicant or a third party. Transcripts should be sent from the institution directly. All materials submitted to the University become the property of the University and cannot be returned to the applicant or forwarded to any third party. If your transcript is in a language other than English, each page must be accompanied by an English translation, validated by an official public translator. If you need to submit other hardcopy materials or cannot send materials to a P.O. Box, you can send materials directly to our office (please allow for additional processing time): UMass Boston Graduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Boulevard Boston, MA 02125 Please be advised that using this address will extend processing time. Applicants are required to demonstrate English language proficiency. Applicants that have not completed at least two academic years of full-time study (excluding ESL and test-prep) at an English-language institution in the U.S. or one of the countries listed below must submit official score results. We accept official scores for the following English language proficiency tests: Our institution code is 3924. We can only accept official score reports sent electronically or in hardcopy directly from the testing agency. Please review the minimum scores required for admission: UMass Boston requires the following minimum scores TOEFL PBT TOEFL IBT IELTS Academic PTE Academic DuoLingo College of Management 600 90 6.5 61 110 Applied Linguistics (MA) 600 90 6.5 61 110 Applied Linguistics (PhD) 600 100 7.0 68 120 Biology (all programs) 600 90 6.5 61 110 600 100 7.0 68 120 English (MA) 600 90 6.5 61 110 History (MA) 600 90 6.5 61 110 Instructional Design 600 90 6.5 61 110 International Relations (MA) 600 90 6.5 61 110 Most Other Programs 550 79 6.0 53 105 Once admitted, applicants will be contacted by the International Student & Scholar Office with information on the visa process. Please email international@umb.edu if you have questions or need assistance. International students admitted to any American university need an I-20 "Certificate of Eligibility," issued by the admitting institution, indicating that they have been accepted as full-time degree-seeking students, that they have the required proficiency in the English language, and that there is sufficient financial support for their education. Applicants must be prepared to pay their own expenses, and should also anticipate yearly increases in institutional costs (such as tuition and fees) and living expenses. For a complete listing of fees, refer to the Tuition and Fees page of the Bursars Office. Transportation to and from the U.S. is not included in this estimate. International students are required to pay non-resident tuition and fees. The UMass Boston International Student & Scholar Office will normally provide the international applicant with the I-20 form to enable him/her to apply for a visa with which to enter the United States. The University cannot issue the I-20 to part-time or online programs. Visa documents will not be issued until the applicant has been admitted and satisfied the International Student & Scholar Office requirements for issuance. The I-20 form is valid only for the semester for which it was issued. The Office of Graduate Studies and Admissions must be notified of an official decision to defer enrollment before a new I-20 form can be issued. If the applicant holds an I-20 from another U.S. institution, a Transfer Verification Form must be completed by the International Student Advisor at the institution the student is currently attending, or if not currently enrolled, the institution most recently attended. Please email international@umb.edu if you need assistance. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu International Graduate Applicants International Application Requirements International Graduate Applicants - UMass Boston In addition to our general graduate application requirements, programs may have additional or alternative requirements listed below. If you have any questions about program application requirements, please contact the program directly. Accounting MS Program page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-7720 Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Sangwan Kim Accounting MS Program page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-7720 Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Sangwan Kim American Studies MA Program Page Deadlines: June 1 for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-6776 Program Contact: Shauna Manning Graduate Program Director: Aaron Lecklider American Studies MA Program Page Deadlines: June 1 for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-6776 Program Contact: Shauna Manning Graduate Program Director: Aaron Lecklider Applied Behavior Analysis for Special Populations Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-7235 Program Contact: Jill Tilton Graduate Program Director: Andre Maharaj Applied Behavior Analysis for Special Populations Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-7235 Program Contact: Jill Tilton Graduate Program Director: Andre Maharaj Applied Economics MA Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Phone: (617) 287-6950 Graduate Program Director: Charalampos Konstantinidis Applied Economics MA Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Phone: (617) 287-6950 Graduate Program Director: Charalampos Konstantinidis Applied Linguistics MA Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 for spring Program Contact: applied.linguistics@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-5760 Graduate Program Director: Corinne Etienne Applied Linguistics MA Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 for spring Program Contact: applied.linguistics@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-5760 Graduate Program Director: Corinne Etienne Applied Linguistics PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: AplingPhD@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-5760 Graduate Program Director: Avary Carhill-Poza Applied Linguistics PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: AplingPhD@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-5760 Graduate Program Director: Avary Carhill-Poza Applied Physics MS Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for fall, October 1 for spring Program Contact: Moriah Roache Phone: (617) 287-6092 Graduate Program Director: Chandra Yelleswarapu Applied Physics MS Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for fall, October 1 for spring Program Contact: Moriah Roache Phone: (617) 287-6092 Graduate Program Director: Chandra Yelleswarapu Applied Physics PhD Program Page Deadlines: October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Chandra Yelleswarapu Applied Physics PhD Program Page Deadlines: October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Chandra Yelleswarapu Applied Sociology Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Program Contact: sociology.gradprog@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Elizabeth Brown Applied Sociology Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Program Contact: sociology.gradprog@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Elizabeth Brown Assistive Technology for Individuals with Visual Impairments Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Assistive Technology for Individuals with Visual Impairments Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Autism Endorsement Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: Christopher Denning Phone: (617) 287-6539 Program Director: Christopher Denning Autism Endorsement Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: Christopher Denning Phone: (617) 287-6539 Program Director: Christopher Denning Biology MS Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority deadline) and November 1 (final deadline) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biology MS Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority deadline) and November 1 (final deadline) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biology PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biology PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biomedical Engineering and Biotechnology (BMEBT) PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biomedical Engineering and Biotechnology (BMEBT) PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biotechnology and Biomedical Science MS Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biotechnology and Biomedical Science MS Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biotechnology Professional PSM Program Page Deadlines: January (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Biotechnology Professional PSM Program Page Deadlines: January (priority deadline for funding consideration) and April 1 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Alexa MacPherson Phone: (617) 287-6603 Graduate Program Director: Linda Huang Business Administration MBA Program Page Deadlines: April 15 for summer, April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-7720 Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Xiaolu Xu Business Administration MBA Program Page Deadlines: April 15 for summer, April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-7720 Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Xiaolu Xu Business Administration PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and February 15 (final) (OSC and ISDS tracks) for Fall 2025 Program Contact: cmphd@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Chi Wan, Ehsan Elahi, and Silvia Dorado Business Administration PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and February 15 (final) (OSC and ISDS tracks) for Fall 2025 Program Contact: cmphd@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Chi Wan, Ehsan Elahi, and Silvia Dorado Business Analytics Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Phone: (617) 287-7720 Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Romilla Syed Business Analytics Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Phone: (617) 287-7720 Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Romilla Syed Business Analytics MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-7720 Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Romilla Syed Business Analytics MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Phone: (617) 287-7720 Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Romilla Syed Chemistry MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: graduate.chemistry@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6130 Graduate Program Director: Neil Reilly and Marianna Torok Chemistry MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: graduate.chemistry@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6130 Graduate Program Director: Neil Reilly and Marianna Torok Chemistry PhD Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final, if space available) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: graduate.chemistry@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6130 Graduate Program Director: Neil Reilly and Marianna Torok Chemistry PhD Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final, if space available) for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: graduate.chemistry@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6130 Graduate Program Director: Neil Reilly and Marianna Torok Clean Energy and Sustainability Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Tara Norton Phone: (617) 287-7720 Clean Energy and Sustainability Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Tara Norton Phone: (617) 287-7720 Clinical Psychology PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: clinical.program@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6340 Graduate Program Director: Sarah Hayes-Skelton Clinical Psychology PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: clinical.program@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6340 Graduate Program Director: Sarah Hayes-Skelton Computational Sciences (CSci) PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Velina Batchvarov Phone: (617) 287-3283 Graduate Program Director: Kourosh Zarringhalam Computational Sciences (CSci) PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Velina Batchvarov Phone: (617) 287-3283 Graduate Program Director: Kourosh Zarringhalam Computer Science MS Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Gemma Galecia Phone: (617) 287-6441 Graduate Program Director: Dan Simovici Computer Science MS Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Gemma Galecia Phone: (617) 287-6441 Graduate Program Director: Dan Simovici Computer Science PhD Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Gemma Galecia Phone: (617) 287-6441 Graduate Program Director: Dan Simovici Computer Science PhD Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Gemma Galecia Phone: (617) 287-6441 Graduate Program Director: Dan Simovici Conflict Resolution Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall (on-campus and online), November 1 for spring (online) Graduate Program Director: Karen Ross Conflict Resolution Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall (on-campus and online), November 1 for spring (online) Graduate Program Director: Karen Ross Conflict Resolution MA Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Graduate Program Director: Karen Ross Conflict Resolution MA Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Graduate Program Director: Karen Ross Contemporary Marketing Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Tara Norton Phone: (617) 287-7720 Contemporary Marketing Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: Tara Norton Phone: (617) 287-7720 Cortical/Cerebral Visual Impairment Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Cortical/Cerebral Visual Impairment Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Counseling Psychology PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Sharon Horne Counseling Psychology PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Sharon Horne Counseling CAGS Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-4034 Graduate Program Director: Tim Poynton Counseling CAGS Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-4034 Graduate Program Director: Tim Poynton Counseling MEd Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-4034 Graduate Program Director: Tim Poynton Counseling MEd Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-4034 Graduate Program Director: Tim Poynton Creative Writing MFA Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Phone: (617) 287-6736 Graduate Program Director: John Fulton Creative Writing MFA Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Phone: (617) 287-6736 Graduate Program Director: John Fulton Critical and Creative Thinking Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: cct@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6523 Graduate Program Director: Jeremy Szteiter Critical and Creative Thinking Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: cct@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6523 Graduate Program Director: Jeremy Szteiter Critical and Creative Thinking MA Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: cct@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6523 Graduate Program Director: Jeremy Szteiter Critical and Creative Thinking MA Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: cct@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-6523 Graduate Program Director: Jeremy Szteiter Critical Ethnic and Community Studies MS Program Page Deadlines: May 1 (priority) and June 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: Cedric Woods Phone: (617) 287-5784 Graduate Program Director: Cedric Woods Critical Ethnic and Community Studies MS Program Page Deadlines: May 1 (priority) and June 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: Cedric Woods Phone: (617) 287-5784 Graduate Program Director: Cedric Woods Cybersecurity Management Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Romilla Syed Cybersecurity Management Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Romilla Syed Database Technology Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Gemma Galecia Phone: (617) 287-6441 Graduate Program Director: Dan Simovici Database Technology Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Gemma Galecia Phone: (617) 287-6441 Graduate Program Director: Dan Simovici Developmental and Brain Sciences PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority) and February 1 (final) for fall Graduate Program Director: Richard Hunter Developmental and Brain Sciences PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority) and February 1 (final) for fall Graduate Program Director: Richard Hunter Dual Language Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Phone: (617) 287-5760 Graduate Program Director: Corinne Etienne Dual Language Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Phone: (617) 287-5760 Graduate Program Director: Corinne Etienne Early Childhood Education and Care PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 15 for fall Graduate Program Director: Serra Acar Early Childhood Education and Care PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 15 for fall Graduate Program Director: Serra Acar Early Childhood MEd Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for summer, June 1 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7625 Graduate Program Director: Serra Acar Early Childhood MEd Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for summer, June 1 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7625 Graduate Program Director: Serra Acar Early Education, Research, Policy, and Practice Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Lynne Mendes Phone: (617) 287-4852 Graduate Program Director: Anne Douglass Early Education, Research, Policy, and Practice Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Lynne Mendes Phone: (617) 287-4852 Graduate Program Director: Anne Douglass Educational Leadership for Social Justice CAGS Program Page Deadlines: March 1 (priority) and April (final) for fall Phone: (617) 287-7601 Graduate Program Director: Casel Walker Educational Leadership for Social Justice CAGS Program Page Deadlines: March 1 (priority) and April (final) for fall Phone: (617) 287-7601 Graduate Program Director: Casel Walker Educational Leadership for Social Justice MEd Program Page Deadlines: March 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Phone: (617) 287-7601 Graduate Program Director: Casel Walker Educational Leadership for Social Justice MEd Program Page Deadlines: March 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Phone: (617) 287-7601 Graduate Program Director: Casel Walker Elementary Education MEd Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Patricia Paugh Elementary Education MEd Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Patricia Paugh English MA Program Page Deadlines: March 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: englishma.program@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Alex Mueller English MA Program Page Deadlines: March 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: englishma.program@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Alex Mueller English Language Development Certificate Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: applied.linguistics@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Corinne Etienne English Language Development Certificate Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: applied.linguistics@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Corinne Etienne Environmental Sciences Professional PSM Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Environmental Sciences Professional PSM Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Environmental Sciences MS Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Environmental Sciences MS Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Environmental Sciences PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Environmental Sciences PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Exercise and Health Sciences MS Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Program Contact: gradehs@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7594 Graduate Program Director: Kai Zou Exercise and Health Sciences MS Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Program Contact: gradehs@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7594 Graduate Program Director: Kai Zou Exercise and Health Sciences PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: gradehs@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7594 Graduate Program Director: Kai Zou Exercise and Health Sciences PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 for fall, October 1 (priority) and November 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: gradehs@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7594 Graduate Program Director: Kai Zou Finance MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Yijia Zhao Finance MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Yijia Zhao Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, November 1 (online) for spring Program Contact: LA.NsiahJefferson@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Laurie Nsiah-Jefferson Gender, Leadership, and Public Policy Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, November 1 (online) for spring Program Contact: LA.NsiahJefferson@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Laurie Nsiah-Jefferson Gerontology Graduate Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma Phone: (617) 287-7338 Graduate Program Director: Ellen Birchander Gerontology Graduate Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma Phone: (617) 287-7338 Graduate Program Director: Ellen Birchander Gerontology Research Policy MS Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Program Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma Phone: (617) 287-7338 Graduate Program Director: Jeffrey Stokes Gerontology Research Policy MS Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Program Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma Phone: (617) 287-7338 Graduate Program Director: Jeffrey Stokes Gerontology PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (for priority consideration for funding) and June 15 (final) for fall Program Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma Phone: (617) 287-7338 Graduate Program Director: Jeffrey Stokes Gerontology PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (for priority consideration for funding) and June 15 (final) for fall Program Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma Phone: (617) 287-7338 Graduate Program Director: Jeffrey Stokes Gerontology: Management of Aging Services MS Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma Phone: (617) 287-7338 Graduate Program Director: Ellen Birchander Gerontology: Management of Aging Services MS Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: Martin Hansen-Verma Phone: (617) 287-7338 Graduate Program Director: Ellen Birchander Global Governance and Human Security MA Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall Program Contact: Kelly Ward Phone: (617) 287-7489 Graduate Program Director: Stacy VanDeveer Global Governance and Human Security MA Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall Program Contact: Kelly Ward Phone: (617) 287-7489 Graduate Program Director: Stacy VanDeveer Global Governance and Human Security PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Program Contact: Kelly Ward Phone: (617) 287-7489 Graduate Program Director: Stacy VanDeveer Global Governance and Human Security PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Program Contact: Kelly Ward Phone: (617) 287-7489 Graduate Program Director: Stacy VanDeveer Global Inclusion and Social Development MA Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: sgisd@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Valerie Karr Global Inclusion and Social Development MA Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: sgisd@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Valerie Karr Global Inclusion and Social Development PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Program Contact: sgisd@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Valerie Karr Global Inclusion and Social Development PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Program Contact: sgisd@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Valerie Karr Higher Education EdD/PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: Amy Collinsworth Phone: (617) 287-7601 Graduate Program Director: Jay Dee Higher Education EdD/PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: Amy Collinsworth Phone: (617) 287-7601 Graduate Program Director: Jay Dee Historical Archaeology MA Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Phone: (617) 287-6835 Graduate Program Director: Heather Trigg Historical Archaeology MA Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Phone: (617) 287-6835 Graduate Program Director: Heather Trigg History Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall Program Contact: Timothy Hacsi Phone: (617) 287-6430 Graduate Program Director: Olivia Weisser History Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall Program Contact: Timothy Hacsi Phone: (617) 287-6430 Graduate Program Director: Olivia Weisser History MA Program Page Deadlines: March 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: Maureen Dwyer Phone: (617) 287-6860 Graduate Program Director: Olivia Weisser History MA Program Page Deadlines: March 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: Maureen Dwyer Phone: (617) 287-6860 Graduate Program Director: Olivia Weisser Human Rights Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: Kaitlyn Siner Phone: (617) 287-3070 Human Rights Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: Kaitlyn Siner Phone: (617) 287-3070 Information Technology MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Romilla Syed Information Technology MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, October 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Romilla Syed Instructional and Learning Design Certificate Program Page Deadlines: July 1 for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: instructionaldesign@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Carol Sharicz Instructional and Learning Design Certificate Program Page Deadlines: July 1 for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: instructionaldesign@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Carol Sharicz Instructional Design MEd Program Page Deadlines: July 1 for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: instructionaldesign@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Carol Sharicz Instructional Design MEd Program Page Deadlines: July 1 for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: instructionaldesign@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Carol Sharicz Instructional Technology Design Certificate Program Page Deadlines: July 1 for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: instructionaldesign@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Carol Sharicz Instructional Technology Design Certificate Program Page Deadlines: July 1 for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: instructionaldesign@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Carol Sharicz Integrative Biosciences (IB) PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for fall (Biochemistry track); February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall (Bioinformatics and Biophysics tracks), November 1 for spring Program Contact: Velina Batchvarov Phone: (617) 287-3283 Graduate Program Director: Kim Hamad-Schifferli Integrative Biosciences (IB) PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for fall (Biochemistry track); February 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall (Bioinformatics and Biophysics tracks), November 1 for spring Program Contact: Velina Batchvarov Phone: (617) 287-3283 Graduate Program Director: Kim Hamad-Schifferli International Relations MA Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Graduate Program Director: Courtenay Sprague International Relations MA Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Graduate Program Director: Courtenay Sprague Investment Management & Quantitative Finance Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Yijia Zhao Investment Management & Quantitative Finance Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: gradcm@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7720 Graduate Program Director: Yijia Zhao Latin and Classical Humanities MA Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Phone: (617) 287-6124 Graduate Program Director: Peter Barrios Lech Latin and Classical Humanities MA Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Phone: (617) 287-6124 Graduate Program Director: Peter Barrios Lech Learning, Teaching & Educational Transformation MEd Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Program Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Christopher Martell Learning, Teaching & Educational Transformation MEd Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall Program Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Christopher Martell Marine Science and Technology MS Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Marine Science and Technology MS Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Marine Science and Technology PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Marine Science and Technology PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Graduate Program Director: Michael Tlusty Mental Health Counseling MS Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority) and February 15 (final) for fall on-campus/summer online Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7641 Graduate Program Director: Takuya Minami Mental Health Counseling MS Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority) and February 15 (final) for fall on-campus/summer online Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7641 Graduate Program Director: Takuya Minami Middle/Secondary Education MEd Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Christopher C. Martell Middle/Secondary Education MEd Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall, November 1 (priority) and December 1 (final) for spring Program Contact: grad.teachered@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Christopher C. Martell Nurse Educator Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall Program Contact: postmasternp@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Linda Curtin Nurse Educator Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall Program Contact: postmasternp@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Linda Curtin Nursing DNP Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Program Contact: dnp@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7482 Graduate Program Director: Christine Salvucci Nursing DNP Program Page Deadlines: February 1 for fall Program Contact: dnp@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7482 Graduate Program Director: Christine Salvucci Nursing MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Program Contact: mastersnursing@umb.edu Phone (617) 287-7482 Graduate Program Director: Elizabeth Russet Nursing MS Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall, October 1 for spring Program Contact: mastersnursing@umb.edu Phone (617) 287-7482 Graduate Program Director: Elizabeth Russet Nursing PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority) and February 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: phdnursing@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7571 Graduate Program Director: Jacqueline Fawcett Nursing PhD Program Page Deadlines: January 1 (priority) and February 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: phdnursing@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7571 Graduate Program Director: Jacqueline Fawcett Public Administration MPA Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall; Program Contact: public.affairs@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-5543 Graduate Program Director: Michael Johnson Public Administration MPA Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 (final) for fall; Program Contact: public.affairs@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-5543 Graduate Program Director: Michael Johnson Public History Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall Program Contact: Jane Becker Graduate Program Director: Olivia Weisser Public History Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 1 for fall Program Contact: Jane Becker Graduate Program Director: Olivia Weisser Public Policy MPP Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 for fall Program Contact: public.affairs@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-5543 Graduate Program Director: Amit Patel Public Policy MPP Program Page Deadlines: April 1 (priority) and June 15 for fall Program Contact: public.affairs@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-5543 Graduate Program Director: Amit Patel Public Policy PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: public.policy@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Amit Patel Public Policy PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 1 (priority) and April 1 (final) for fall Program Contact: public.policy@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Amit Patel Rehabilitation Counseling Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 15 for summer, June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: RehabAdmissions@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Dimity Peter Rehabilitation Counseling Certificate Program Page Deadlines: April 15 for summer, June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: RehabAdmissions@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Dimity Peter Rehabilitation Counseling MS Program Page Deadlines: April 15 for summer, June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: RehabAdmissions@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Dimity Peter Rehabilitation Counseling MS Program Page Deadlines: April 15 for summer, June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: RehabAdmissions@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Dimity Peter School Psychology MEd/EdS Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7661 Graduate Program Director: Tracy Paskiewicz School Psychology MEd/EdS Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7661 Graduate Program Director: Tracy Paskiewicz School Psychology PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Stacy Bender School Psychology PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: csp.admissions@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Stacy Bender Sociology PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: sociology.gradprog@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Cinzia Solari Sociology PhD Program Page Deadlines: December 1 for fall Program Contact: sociology.gradprog@umb.edu Graduate Program Director: Cinzia Solari Special Education Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: Christopher Denning Phone: (617) 287-7600 Graduate Program Director: Christopher Denning Special Education Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: Christopher Denning Phone: (617) 287-7600 Graduate Program Director: Christopher Denning Special Education MEd Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: Christopher Denning Phone: (617) 287-7600 Graduate Program Director: Christopher Denning Special Education MEd Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, November 1 for spring Program Contact: Christopher Denning Phone: (617) 287-7600 Graduate Program Director: Christopher Denning Teach Next Year MEd Program Page Deadlines: April 15 for summer Phone: (617) 287-7642 Graduate Program Director: Lisa Gonsalves Teach Next Year MEd Program Page Deadlines: April 15 for summer Phone: (617) 287-7642 Graduate Program Director: Lisa Gonsalves Transition Leadership Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Maria Paiewonsky Phone: (617) 287-7697 Graduate Program Director: Maria Paiewonsky Transition Leadership Certificate Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Maria Paiewonsky Phone: (617) 287-7697 Graduate Program Director: Maria Paiewonsky Urban Education, Leadership, and Policy Studies EdD/PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: Amy Collinsworth Phone: (617) 287-7601 Graduate Program Director: Abiola Farinde-Wu Urban Education, Leadership, and Policy Studies EdD/PhD Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: Amy Collinsworth Phone: (617) 287-7601 Graduate Program Director: Abiola Farinde-Wu Urban Planning and Community Development MS Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: sfe@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7440 Graduate Program Director: Chi-Kan Richard Hung Urban Planning and Community Development MS Program Page Deadlines: June 15 for fall, December 1 for spring Program Contact: sfe@umb.edu Phone: (617) 287-7440 Graduate Program Director: Chi-Kan Richard Hung Vision Rehabilitation Therapy Certificate Program page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Vision Rehabilitation Therapy Certificate Program page Deadlines: June 15 for fall Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Vision Studies MEd Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer (O&M and TVI tracks), June 15 for fall (VRT and AT tracks) Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Vision Studies MEd Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer (O&M and TVI tracks), June 15 for fall (VRT and AT tracks) Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Vision Studies: Orientation and Mobility Certificate Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman Vision Studies: Orientation and Mobility Certificate Program Page Deadlines: February 15 for summer Program Contact: Laura Bozeman Phone: (617) 287-4385 Graduate Program Director: Laura Bozeman 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Program-Specific Information Requirements & Contact Program Requirements & Contacts - UMass Boston Welcome to UMass Boston! Below is a list of resources to help you during your graduate program. If you can't find what you need, contact us at graduate.studies@umb.edu or 617.287.4000. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Graduate Student Resources Academic Integrity Advising Billing Books Community Consortium for Graduate Studies in Gender, Culture, Women, and Sexuality Employment Financial Aid and Student Assistance Funding Health Insurance Health Services Housing ID Card International Student Services Parking and Transportation Research Registration Support Services Teaching Graduate Student Resources - UMass Boston Sponsored by: Office for Faculty Development, Office of Graduate Studies, and Center for Innovative Teaching At the UMass Boston teaching is one of three pillars of faculty excellence, along with research and service. The Graduate Teaching Program (GTP) offers graduate students an opportunity to learn about teaching from the universitys many expert instructors and to develop their own skills and reflective capacities in ways that are useful in both academic and non-academic settings. Students who complete the program will receive a notation on their transcripta significant form of documentation that can be referenced on rsums and graduate school and job applications. There is no application for the GTP. Students already enrolled in graduate programs that include teaching assistantships and teaching seminars can simply register. Please note that the GTP does not arrange teaching opportunities or teaching seminars. Teaching assistantships, when available, are based in the home department. The GTP is designed to supplement and recognize the experience and preparation of teaching assistants without getting in the way of ones degree progress. Read about the Graduate Teaching Program requirements and register. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Graduate Teaching Program Graduate Teaching Program - UMass Boston The Office of Graduate Studies is located on the second floor of the Campus Center, in Suite 2100. Hours of operation are 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Contact the office by phone at 617.287.4000 or by fax at 617.287.5699. The Office of Graduate Studies is located on the second floor of the Campus Center, in Suite 2100. Hours of operation are 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Contact the office by phone at 617.287.4000 or by fax at 617.287.5699. Requirements for a thesis or dissertation vary by program. To find out the requirements specific to your program contact the committee chair. The university has a standard format that a thesis or dissertation must follow. It is recommended that you follow that formatting from the beginning rather than reformatting your paper at the end. These formatting standards are available to you on the Theses & Dissertations page. Requirements for a thesis or dissertation vary by program. To find out the requirements specific to your program contact the committee chair. The university has a standard format that a thesis or dissertation must follow. It is recommended that you follow that formatting from the beginning rather than reformatting your paper at the end. These formatting standards are available to you on the Theses & Dissertations page. To be considered full-time, a student must be enrolled in classes totaling nine (9) or more credits per semester. Anything less than nine (9) credits is considered part time. Doctoral candidates engaged in dissertation research may be considered full-time students provided their graduate program certifies that they are working at a full-time status. Students seeking financial aid should obtain detailed information about full-time and part-time requirements from Financial Aid Services. To be considered full-time, a student must be enrolled in classes totaling nine (9) or more credits per semester. Anything less than nine (9) credits is considered part time. Doctoral candidates engaged in dissertation research may be considered full-time students provided their graduate program certifies that they are working at a full-time status. Students seeking financial aid should obtain detailed information about full-time and part-time requirements from Financial Aid Services. Continuing and Professional Studies offers online, off campus, weekend and evening courses in various programs and certificates. All courses are credited by UMass Boston and are transferable. For more information on courses, registration, programs, and certificates please visit the Continuing and Professional Studies website or call 617.287.7900. Continuing and Professional Studies offers online, off campus, weekend and evening courses in various programs and certificates. All courses are credited by UMass Boston and are transferable. For more information on courses, registration, programs, and certificates please visit the Continuing and Professional Studies website or call 617.287.7900. Non-degree, or non-matriculated students, can obtain information on the Non-degree Students page. Please note that only six (6) credits taken as a non-degree student can be transferred into a UMass Boston graduate program. Non-degree, or non-matriculated students, can obtain information on the Non-degree Students page. Please note that only six (6) credits taken as a non-degree student can be transferred into a UMass Boston graduate program. The graduate program director is the best resource for information regarding your academic program requirements. For contact information, please view the List of Graduate Programs and Directors. The graduate program director is the best resource for information regarding your academic program requirements. For contact information, please view the List of Graduate Programs and Directors. Your graduate program director is the best resource for information on academic rules and regulations and particularly how they apply to you. Please visit the Academic Regulations - Graduate page for more information. Your graduate program director is the best resource for information on academic rules and regulations and particularly how they apply to you. Please visit the Academic Regulations - Graduate page for more information. University policies can be found on the Academic Regulations - Graduate page. University policies can be found on the Academic Regulations - Graduate page. These and other forms are available on the Forms page of the Office of the Registrar website. These and other forms are available on the Forms page of the Office of the Registrar website. Students should be aware that if they declare late, it could result in postponing their graduation to a future date. For deadline information on graduation declaration, visit the Graduation page on the Office of the Registrar website. Students should be aware that if they declare late, it could result in postponing their graduation to a future date. For deadline information on graduation declaration, visit the Graduation page on the Office of the Registrar website. Information on financial aid can be found on the Financial Aid Services page. Information on financial aid can be found on the Financial Aid Services page. Billing information is accessible through your student WISER account or by contacting the Bursar's Office. Billing information is accessible through your student WISER account or by contacting the Bursar's Office. Assistantships within your academic program are awarded by the graduate program director, whom you should contact for further information. For a complete list of graduate programs and directors please see the academic program contacts page. For graduate assistantships outside your program, please visit the Human Resources page and search for open assistantships. Please note: All on-campus and off-campus (federal work study) positions are listed on the MyCareer Online website. Assistantships within your academic program are awarded by the graduate program director, whom you should contact for further information. For a complete list of graduate programs and directors please see the academic program contacts page. For graduate assistantships outside your program, please visit the Human Resources page and search for open assistantships. Please note: All on-campus and off-campus (federal work study) positions are listed on the MyCareer Online website. Assistance and advising is available to veterans through Enrollment Management. Assistance and advising is available to veterans through Enrollment Management. For help activating a new email account, forwarding email, changing a forgotten password, or logging into the student email system, please go here. For help activating a new email account, forwarding email, changing a forgotten password, or logging into the student email system, please go here. WISER is the web-based, self-service system used by students, faculty, and staff at UMass Boston. Students can access information regarding their account and use online features to update and maintain their personal, academic, and financial information. WISER is the web-based, self-service system used by students, faculty, and staff at UMass Boston. Students can access information regarding their account and use online features to update and maintain their personal, academic, and financial information. Blackboard Learn is an online learning tool used by students and faculty to assist with academic courses. Blackboard allows you to have discussions with your professor and peers, submit papers, and check or post your assignments. To access UMass Online and Blackboard Learn, click here Blackboard Learn is an online learning tool used by students and faculty to assist with academic courses. Blackboard allows you to have discussions with your professor and peers, submit papers, and check or post your assignments. To access UMass Online and Blackboard Learn, click here Matriculated students can use the WISER system to view or update academic information on classes, grades, audits, and transcripts. Matriculated students can use the WISER system to view or update academic information on classes, grades, audits, and transcripts. Student computer labs are located on the upper level and third floor of the Healey Library. Printing is available in the computer labs as well. Make sure to know your student email address and password, as it is needed to verify print jobs. To learn about other services offered by the Healey Library and for online resources, visit the Healey Library's website. Student computer labs are located on the upper level and third floor of the Healey Library. Printing is available in the computer labs as well. Make sure to know your student email address and password, as it is needed to verify print jobs. To learn about other services offered by the Healey Library and for online resources, visit the Healey Library's website. The academic calendar can be found Academic Calendar. The academic calendar can be found Academic Calendar. To acquire a student ID you must go to the BeaconCard Office, located in McCormack Hall, on the second floor, in Room 615. You must present a valid picture ID or three (3) printed proofs of address to receive a student ID. To obtain a library barcode sticker on your ID, which allows you to use library resources, please visit the front desk in Healey Library. For more information regarding student IDs go here. To acquire a student ID you must go to the BeaconCard Office, located in McCormack Hall, on the second floor, in Room 615. You must present a valid picture ID or three (3) printed proofs of address to receive a student ID. To obtain a library barcode sticker on your ID, which allows you to use library resources, please visit the front desk in Healey Library. For more information regarding student IDs go here. UMass Boston has residence halls for first-year undergraduate students. There are a number of near campus living options available at the Harbor Point and Peninsula Apartments as well as rentals and room-shares in the area. Visit the Office of Student Housing for information. UMass Boston has residence halls for first-year undergraduate students. There are a number of near campus living options available at the Harbor Point and Peninsula Apartments as well as rentals and room-shares in the area. Visit the Office of Student Housing for information. Please go to the Office of Transportation Services page. Please go to the Office of Transportation Services page. The Division of Student Affairs provides opportunities for student growth and development, which complement the traditional academic mission in the classroom. These include student government, student leadership programs, student clubs, student events, and artistic opportunities. The Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) is the graduate students' governance body and serves as the voice of graduate students on the UMass Boston campus. The GSA is dedicated to enhancing the academic and professional development of graduate students. This includes support for graduate research and skill development through the recognized professional associations, Spayne Master's Thesis/Project Grant, Bollinger Doctoral Thesis Grant, and professional development grants. The Division of Student Affairs provides opportunities for student growth and development, which complement the traditional academic mission in the classroom. These include student government, student leadership programs, student clubs, student events, and artistic opportunities. The Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) is the graduate students' governance body and serves as the voice of graduate students on the UMass Boston campus. The GSA is dedicated to enhancing the academic and professional development of graduate students. This includes support for graduate research and skill development through the recognized professional associations, Spayne Master's Thesis/Project Grant, Bollinger Doctoral Thesis Grant, and professional development grants. Some of these services are offered to graduate students through the Graduate Research Center located on the fifth floor of the Healey Library. For other print and/or copy services, contact Quinn Graphics. Some of these services are offered to graduate students through the Graduate Research Center located on the fifth floor of the Healey Library. For other print and/or copy services, contact Quinn Graphics. Graduate school can feel overwhelming sometimes, but there are a number of counseling resources available to you. The Counseling Center is available to you if you feel that you need assistance. The center provides a range of services to help with managing time and improving academic performance, responding to traumatic events, dealing with challenges associated with various social and cultural factors, and identifying and managing self-destructive behavioral patterns, including eating disorders and problems with alcohol and drug abuse. Graduate school can feel overwhelming sometimes, but there are a number of counseling resources available to you. The Counseling Center is available to you if you feel that you need assistance. The center provides a range of services to help with managing time and improving academic performance, responding to traumatic events, dealing with challenges associated with various social and cultural factors, and identifying and managing self-destructive behavioral patterns, including eating disorders and problems with alcohol and drug abuse. Definitions Teaching Assistant I (TA I): A graduate student employed on a salaried basis who is primarily assigned to instructional support activities. Teaching Assistant II (TA II): A graduate student employed on a salaried basis that is the instructor of record for a lecture section of a course and has independent responsibility for its teaching and grading. Research Assistant (RA): A graduate student who is employed on a salaried basis to perform work primarily related to academic research or other similar work. Administrative Assistant (AA): A graduate student who is employed on a salaried basis to perform work of an administrative or technical nature. Under the terms of the Graduate Employee Organization (GEO) contract, a full-time assistantship is defined as 18 hours a week. However, all students, including international students, are permitted to work 20 hours a week on campus while classes are in session. Eligibility Graduate assistantships may be awarded to matriculated doctoral, certificate of advanced graduate study, and master's students who are in good academic standing (e.g., GPA of 3.0 or higher). Graduate certificate students are not eligible to receive assistantships. There is no credit minima required to hold an assistantship. Those students on program fee status are eligible for assistantships. International students must hold an F1 visa in order to be eligible to be employed as a graduate assistant. Definitions Under the terms of the Graduate Employee Organization (GEO) contract, a full-time assistantship is defined as 18 hours a week. However, all students, including international students, are permitted to work 20 hours a week on campus while classes are in session. Eligibility Graduate assistantships may be awarded to matriculated doctoral, certificate of advanced graduate study, and master's students who are in good academic standing (e.g., GPA of 3.0 or higher). Graduate certificate students are not eligible to receive assistantships. There is no credit minima required to hold an assistantship. Those students on program fee status are eligible for assistantships. International students must hold an F1 visa in order to be eligible to be employed as a graduate assistant. First, make sure that your GPD (graduate program director) knows that you want an assistantship since the GPD awards the assistantships in your program. For assistantships outside your program, you should visit the Human Resources website and search for open assistantships. First, make sure that your GPD (graduate program director) knows that you want an assistantship since the GPD awards the assistantships in your program. For assistantships outside your program, you should visit the Human Resources website and search for open assistantships. Yes, international students doing a complete course of study and holding the F-1 Visa are only allowed to work up to 20 hours per week. International students must complete the Non Resident Alien Form and complete the Windstar interview process in the Human Resources Department. Yes, international students doing a complete course of study and holding the F-1 Visa are only allowed to work up to 20 hours per week. International students must complete the Non Resident Alien Form and complete the Windstar interview process in the Human Resources Department. The GEO is the Graduate Employee Organization at UMass Boston, the graduate employees union. The GEO is the Graduate Employee Organization at UMass Boston, the graduate employees union. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu FAQ Academic FAQs Financial FAQs Online FAQs Student Life FAQs Graduate Assistantships FAQs Where is the Office of Graduate Studies and what are its hours? If I am expected to do a thesis or dissertation, how do I learn about the requirements? How many credits are required to be considered a full-time student? How do I find out what is offered through the Continuing and Professional Studies? If I am a non-degree student, how do I register, and what are the regulations and requirements as a non-degree student? To whom do I speak regarding the required courses, electives, waivers, or transfer credits in my program? Where do I find assistance in the event of readmitting after leave of absence, incomplete grades, and the statue of limitations in completing my program? Where do I get information about student rights, university guidelines and other policies at UMass Boston? Where do I find access to registrar forms for graduate program change, student withdrawal, leave of absence request, statue of limitation extension, and readmission? When is the deadline to declare graduation upon completing the program? Where do I go if I have questions about financial aid? Who do I contact with questions concerning my bill/tuition and fees? How do I learn about graduate assistantships, work on campus, and work study jobs? Where can I find out about services and financial aid for veterans, including the GI Bill and benefits? How do I sign up for access to a free student email account? What is WISER? How do I access UMass Online for online courses and Blackboard Learn for retrieving class material? How do I register for classes, add/drop a course, view grades, or request transcripts? How do I access library services such as student computer labs and printing? How do I access the university's academic calendar? Where do I go for a student ID and valid ID sticker which gives me free access to the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum, Museum of Fine Arts, Beacon Fitness Center, etc.? What about housing? Can I live on campus? Where do I find transportation and parking services information for commuting to UMass Boston? How do I learn about or become involved in extracurricular activities, student clubs, student life resources, etc.? Where do I go for printing, faxing, binding, poster, and banner services? I'm feeling overwhelmed and in over my head. What services are available to me? What is a graduate assistantship? Who do I ask about a graduate assistantship? As an international student, are there additional requirements for employment? What is the Graduate Employee Organization (GEO)? FAQs - UMass Boston The Center for Statistical Computing (CSC) is a professional service and research unit supported by the Office of Graduate Studies at UMass Boston. CSC offers comprehensive support for research, training, and consulting in data science to faculty, staff, and graduate students through one-on-one consultations and training workshops. CSC offers guidance on statistical challenges throughout the research process, including study preparation, data analysis, and result interpretation. It also assists in the preparation of data analysis sections for inclusion in grant preparation, such as writing analysis sections of grants, sample size planning, development of research-specific aims and hypotheses, and designing statistical approaches to research aims. It also assists with manuscript revisions related to statistical issues. Assistance is available for statistical issues arising at any stage of the research process. Services offered by CSC include: CSC provides support for using a range of statistical software, including SPSS, AMOS, SAS, Stata, Matlab, R, Python, and WinBUGs. We also offer programming support and training workshops. Please click here for more details about licensed software. Many people ask us which statistical software package is the best, but there is no one-size-fits-all answer. The choice depends on the analyses you want to perform, as well as your statistical and programming background. Feel free to contact our staff to discuss the best software for your specific situation. CSC offers a variety of workshops, including those on statistical software (SPSS, SAS, Stata, Excel, R, and Python), and in applied statistics. These workshops are offered free of charge to members of the UMass Boston community, but due to limited space, we do ask that you register in advance. For more details about the workshops, please refer to our workshop descriptions and schedules: Basic Statistical Workshop Descriptions and Schedule (Fall 2024) Applied Statistical Workshop Descriptions and Schedule (Fall 2024) Seats and handouts are limited. Please register in advance. In person Statistical workshops will be held in the Green Lab or Gold Lab on the upper level (UL) of Healey Library. To schedule an appointment for statistical consulting services, please check our office hour below and make an appointment prior to your visit. If you want to make an appointment outside our office hour, or if you have any other issues, please contact us at csc@live.umb.edu. Register via our online booking or scan the QR Code below for your registration Office Hours: 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Senior Statistician Jie Chen, Ph.D. (jie.chen@umb.edu) Graduate Assistants Zihan Li (zihan.li001@umb.edu) Jie Chen, Director Email: jie.chen@umb.edu 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Center for Statistical Computing Types of Statistical Consulting Services: Specialized statistical expertise in areas including: Statistical Software: Choosing the Right Software: Statistical Workshops How to Obtain Statistical Consulting Services Center for Statistical Computing Center for Statistical Computing - UMass Boston GEO Emergency Fund Application Apply to the GEO Emergency Fund here. The GEO Emergency Support Fund provides small grants up to $500 (which are taxable income to the recipient), to active dues-paying union members for temporary one-time emergency situations including (but not limited to) those that arise as a result of theft, natural disaster, food or housing insecurity or financial insecurity and barriers to educational access caused by external policy changes. The fund is not meant to cover ongoing costs such as university tuition and fees and living expenses. The GEO Emergency Support Fund requests are intended to be for one-time events and subsequent requests will only be considered in different circumstances from the first request. As such, subsequent requests may be subject to increased review and priority may be given to members who have not yet made use of these funds. Replacement of school equipment or books due to theft or natural disaster; cost of food or temporary living expenses due to natural disasters, accidents, housing problems, or domestic violence; visa renewal; or legal representation related to immigration or other forms of discrimination. Applicants may be contacted by a staff member from the Office of Graduate Studies and can be referred to the Dean of Students Office or U-Access to discuss whether they would like to have a benefits screening. U-Access serves students who are experiencing temporary homelessness, emancipation from foster care, chronic poverty, and chronic hunger. Please include all information requested. Supporting documentation should include any information that will support statements in your narrative. For example, if you state that you have lost your job, please include any emails or other communication which show that you have lost your employment. Claims that are not sufficiently documented may not be considered. Please be assured that all verbal and written communications will be treated with the strictest privacy. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu GEO Emergency Support Fund Purpose of the GEO Emergency Support Fund: GEO Emergency Support Fund - UMass Boston SAGE Campus is a digital library product supporting self-learning research skills and methods. It consists of 39 courses with 280+ hours of structured online learning, with a mix of quality content, videos, interactives, and informative assessments. The flexible learning pathways of SAGE Campus cover tricky skills and research methods that can be applied across all stages of academic study, from students looking to critically assess information to researchers looking to report and publish their data. The Center for Statistical Computing (CSC) and IT have set up PCs in the Graduate Research Lab (the GRC lab is located on the 5th floor of Healey Library, room number 026) with a fully installed software environment (Python and R) for learning and practicing SAGE campus courses. In addition, CSC staff are available in the scheduled time slots to help with in-person self-learning SAGE Campus courses throughout the semester. We also provide help and support when you face related questions during your SAGE Campus courses learning. Please register your attendance in advance, or send an email if you would like to meet outside of these time slots. You can register a SAGE Campus account with your UMB email address. All courses are free to authorized UMB students' accounts. Your account will be authorized automatically if you visit the SAGE Campus website via UMB's internet. Otherwise please use the link in the How to login in to SAGE campus courses. You can also email our CSC staff to check the Lab's availability and register your sessions in advance. There is no maximum time limit for your session, you can stay as long as you want during Lab time. Register via our online booking or scan the QR code below for your registration Senior Statistician Jie Chen, Ph.D. (jie.chen@umb.edu) Graduate Assistant Zihan Li (zihan.li001@umb.edu) Inal Mashukov (inal.mashukov001@umb.edu) 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu SAGE Campus Courses Self-paced Learning Sessions with CSC How to Register SAGE Campus Account? How to Register for SAGE Campus Lab Sessions? Our Staff Sage Campus Courses - UMass Boston Areas of Specialization Research: Jie Chen's current research interests focus on Applied Probability, Parametric Bootstrap, Scan Statistics, Statistical Inference and Computation, and Statistical Learning. Teaching: MATH 125: Introduction to Statistics, ECON452, Econometrics, Workshops in Applied Statistics, and in using software such as SAS, SPSS, Stata, R, AMOS, MPlus Python, and WinBUGS. Education History BS, Geophysics, Peking University, 1986 MS, Statistics, University of Rhode Island, 1993 PhD, Statistics, University of Connecticut, 1998 American Statistics Association. International Chinese Statistics Association. Institute of Mathematical Statistics. SAS Institute Recent Articles in Professional Journals: Recent Papers Presented at Scientific Meetings and Conferences: email: jie.chen@umb.edu back to top 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Statistician Senior Statistician Statistician - UMass Boston The Center for Statistical Computing (CSC) welcomes all graduate students, staff, and faculty to participate in our statistics workshops. These sessions are held on Zoom and/or in Green Labs on the upper level (UL) of Healey Library. Our workshops cover using statistical software such as SPSS, SAS, Stata, Excel, R, RStudio, and Python. We also provide topics in applied statistics encompassing recently developed statistical methods, utilizing tools such as SPSS, SAS, Stata, R, AMOS, Mplus, and WinBUGS. Descriptions for each workshop are provided below: Statistical Workshops (2024 Summer) This is a hands-on workshop designed to empower attendees with the skills to conduct meaningful data analysis using SPSS for Windows. Topics covered include entering and reading data, documenting variable and value labels, examining frequency and crosstab tables for individual and group data, recoding variables, performing independent sample t-tests, and conducting simple linear regression. This workshop delves into advanced data management and statistical procedures, encompassing case selection, combining cases from two files, and linking files with diverse information. Statistical procedures covered include the chi-square test, one-way ANOVA, repeated measurement analysis, non-parametric statistics, multiple regression, and logistic regression. This workshop emphasizes conducting fundamental statistical analyses, including descriptive statistics, frequency distributions, Chi-square tests, independent sample t-tests, one-way ANOVA, and linear and logistic regressions. Additional topics cover downloading and installing R packages, reading and writing data files, and creating R graphs. Notably, R is a free, open-source software supported by a strong user community. This workshop serves as an introduction to Stata, encompassing both the graphic user interface and intuitive command syntax approaches. It aims to efficiently teach fundamental Stata operations. Topics covered include browsing data, data management, descriptive statistics, independent samples t-tests, and simple linear regression models. This workshop delves into advanced data management topics, including data transformation, recoding variables, and constructing new variables. Additionally, it covers the use of log files, do files, and explores further statistical procedures such as the Chi-square test, one-way ANOVA, and multiple linear regression, along with regression diagnostics and logistic regression. The workshop provides valuable tips for enhancing efficiency in data analysis with Excel. Topics covered include entering data, organizing data and performing descriptive statistics, examining frequencies and crosstab tables, conducting independent and paired sample t-tests, correlation analysis, and linear regression. This workshop provides an introduction to the SAS system, focusing on the SAS DATA STEP with an emphasis on data input, manipulation, output, and summary. Topics covered include creating SAS working data sets and files, importing data from SPSS and Excel files, formatting variable and value labels, and conducting simple statistical procedures such as PROC FREQ and PROC MEANS. This workshop explores the analysis of designed experiments with PROC ANOVA and PROC GLM, along with linear and non-linear regression techniques using PROC REG and PROC GENMOD. Topics covered encompass one-way and two-way analysis of variance, simple and multiple linear regression, regression diagnostics, and logistic regression. This workshop provides an overview of RStudio and the SAGE Campus platform. RStudio, a user-friendly integrated development environment for the R language, is explored alongside SAGE Campus, a learning platform offering online courses for skills and research methods. This workshop covers key R concepts, including elementary data structures, atomicity, plotting using ggplot2, regression plotting, and logistic regression. The content is based on the course offered by SAGE Campus. This workshop will involve downloading COVID-19 data for states and Massachusetts from the Center for Systems Science and Engineering of Johns Hopkins University and the Department of Public Health (DPH) Massachusetts. We will employ time series and spatial regression models to analyze the COVID-19 data, utilizing R packages such as forecast, tseries, spdep, maptools, and ggplot2. Additionally, this workshop will demonstrate how to use R to generate reports for COVID data. This workshop introduces techniques for structural equation modeling (SEM). SEM is employed to test complex relationships between observed (measured) and unobserved (latent) variables. Topics covered include fundamentals underlying SEM, SEM notation, path diagrams, data preparation, mediation analysis, path analysis, parameter estimation, and assessment of model fit. AMOS and R are used to demonstrate examples. The second SEM workshop delves into advanced topics including measurement error, latent variables analysis, exploratory factor analysis (EFA), confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), development of structural equation models with estimation, and model testing. Additionally, this workshop introduces latent growth models for longitudinal data. R program and AMOS are utilized to demonstrate model structures, parameter estimation, and model modification. This workshop provides an overview of the fundamental principles of multilevel/hierarchical linear models. Topics include the necessity for appropriate methods to model dependencies (e.g., clustering of students within schools), formulating and interpreting two-level multilevel models and their relevant parameters, and using SPSS to estimate model parameters. This workshop covers sample size determinations and power estimation for various statistical comparisons and tests using the PROC POWER procedure in SAS. This workshop covers missing data mechanisms, non-random selection bias analysis, and methods of single and multiple imputation (MI) using SAS and Stata. Missing data is a common issue in various datasets. Most statistical software packages automatically eliminate entire cases with missing data from the analysis, potentially leading to low sample sizes and biased results. This is an introductory workshop in statistical learning focusing on the important elements of modern data analysis such as regression and classification methods. Topics covered include linear and logistic regression, linear discriminant analysis, cross-validation, principal components, and clustering. Data analysis examples in this workshop are demonstrated using R. This workshop introduces spatial modeling, exploring tools such as Rs maptools and spdep packages. The workshop covers essential topics including spatial data visualization in R, understanding spatial autocorrelation, statistical methods for spatial dependence, creating spatial weights, and building spatial regression models. This workshop emphasizes the practical aspects of time series analysis. Methods are hierarchically introduced, starting with terminology and exploratory graphics, moving to descriptive statistics, and ending with practical modeling procedures including how to choose an appropriate time series forecasting method, fit a model, evaluate its performance, and use it for forecasting. It focuses on the most popular business forecasting methods: regression models, smoothing methods including Moving Average (MA) and Exponential Smoothing, and Autoregressive (AR) models. Practical implementation in R is illustrated at each stage of the workshop. SAGE Campus is a learning platform that offers designed online courses for skills and research methods. These fully self-paced courses feature an engaging mix of video content, interactive elements, and formative assessments. This workshop provides an overview of SAGE Campus courses and guides students in setting up an account to enroll in SAGE Campus courses. The session will use the SAGE online course Introduction to R as an example. This workshop using SPSS presents statistical methods of survival analysis, specifically focusing on studies where the outcome is a time-to-event variable. It covers the estimation of survival time using the life table and Kaplan-Meier Methods, as well as modeling survival risk. It also assesses the relationship between risk factors and survival times using the Cox regression model. SPSS 28.0 will be used for data analysis. This is a causal inference research design method for analyzing the impact of a specific event on a particular outcome or variable of interest over a defined time period. The event can be considered as the treatment in a Difference-in-Difference (DiD) analysis, and the dynamics of the impact can be assessed by comparing the changes in outcomes over time between the treated and control groups. This workshop will make use of a variety of R packages, specifically, fixest, plm, and did for event-study regression. Topics covered include data preparation, DiD analysis, dynamic DiD model, and the graphic display of the dynamic event effects. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Statistical Workshops Summer 2024 Statistics Workshop Schedule Statistics Workshop Descriptions Statistical Workshops - UMass Boston Many curriculum governance processes are being handled through Curriculog. Please see information on how to submit proposed curriculum and course changes via Curriculog. Click here for graduate student forms. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Forms & Governance Graduate Program Director's Materials Academic Integrity Governance Policies, Procedures, and Forms Forms for Graduate Students Forms - UMass Boston Translating Early Education Research into Practice Introductory course on qualitative and quantitative methodology and how to apply in early childhood work Class, in person Class, in person Understanding Data: Research Methods for Managers Class, in person 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Shared Research Courses Research Methods Courses - UMass Boston UMass Boston appreciates the experience and perspective our veterans bring to the campus. As part of the VALOR Act, your basic military training earns you transfer credits. Additionally, courses you took while in service and job related training are evaluated for transfer credits. Accepted transfer credits will be found on your transfer credit evaluation report. Your military education and experiences will be evaluated for transfer credit based on UMass Bostons transfer credit policies. If additional materials or information is required, our admissions staff will notify you. Please provide: Send your College/University transcripts to: UMass Boston c/o Office of Undergraduate Admissions 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 We look forward to serving you. Please contact us with any questions. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Military & Transfer Credits VALOR Act Academic Credit Evaluation Policy Military & Transfer Credits - UMass Boston Ches D. OBrien, 20 Major: College of Nursing and Health Sciences, Nursing Hometown: Canton, MA Service: U.S. Air Force Ches OBrien was born in the Philippines and attended high school in CA. When she graduated early, at the age of 16, she decided to join the US Air Force. It was in the military that she discovered her ultimate calling -- the field of nursing. Ches transferred to UMass Boston from Rowan College and joined the MA National Guard. At UMass Boston, she connected with the Office of Veterans Affairs. They were great, she says. They represented UMass Boston wonderfully, and were very clear about everything. She credits them, and Jim McCarthy from the Office of University Advising, for helping her complete an inter-college transfer from the College of Liberal Arts into the College of Nursing and Health Sciences. While she is earning her Bachelor of Science in nursing degree, she continues her study of psychology, as a minor, and has also volunteered for the UMass Boston UNICEF program, Bostons City Year project, and at a local elder center. She is very busy. She believes itll be good practice for eventually working as a licensed RN, while earning her doctoral degree in Nursing Practice. Micah Mignott, 19 Major: College of Science and Mathematics, Information Technology Home Town: Boston, MA Service: U. S. Marine Corps Reserves Micah Mignott first started at UMass Boston after graduating from Mission High School in Boston, and had decided to major in Computer Science. UMass Boston was an easy decision for him it made economic sense, and his mom believed it was the right place for him. During his first few years at UMass Boston, he found that Computer Science was not the best fit for him. He wanted something else, but was not yet sure what. He joined the Marine Corps Reserves, and spent time training in the Carolinas. He was then sent to California where he worked in telecommunications. In a sense, he feels, thats when he found Information Technology and what he calls a realistic perspective. When he returned to Massachusetts, Micah worked on the Cambridge City Council campaign for former vice-mayor, Marc McGovern. He enjoyed the experience, and it heightened his awareness of the value of earning his college degree -- and its relationship to the job search process. It was time to try UMass Boston again, this time combining his acquired telecommunications skills with computer science to major in Information Technology. Adam Mason, 19 Major: College of Management, Supply Chain & Service Management Home Town: Lynn, MA Service: U.S. Marine Corps Adam Mason has a plan. He believes that UMass Boston will help him implement that plan. After he graduated from Lynn Technical High School, where he played soccer, Adam began working in retail, but found he wanted more. Speaking with a number of Armed Services recruiters, he realized that the Marine Corps offered the best shot at building on both his work experience and learned technical skills. So, in 2006, he signed on and went off to Parris Island in South Carolina, followed by a tour of duty in Iraq. After leaving active duty, Adam earned his Associates degree in Liberal Arts from North Shore Community College, and then took advantage of the MassTransfer process to transfer to UMass Boston. Attending a Transfer Open House, and following the advice of a UMass Boston advisor, he entered the College of Management, majoring in Supply Chain and Service Management. He found that the colleges Management Achievement Program (MAP) offered many events and experiences that spoke directly to his interests and focus, helping him network. Numerous job fairs allow the same, so he tries to attend as many as he can. As he puts it, initiative turns into opportunities. Adam found the Student Veterans Center to be a good place to meet lots of like-minded people [where its] easy to make lots of friends. And, though the campus as a whole is very friendly and welcoming, he says the student veterans community is especially supportive. While Adam was attracted to UMass Boston by the ease of transferring, he finds that the campuss great diversity is very rewarding and valuable, broadening his horizons, and affording him exposure to perspectives he might have otherwise missed. He believes the schools solid global reputation will help him in the job market when he graduates. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Meet Our Students & Alumni Students & Alumni - UMass Boston More than 600 veterans from all branches of the armed forces study at UMass Boston. Students who have served in the military, have earned a high school diploma, and have a Joint Service Transcript with no additional college experience, are considered First-Year Students and should apply to UMass Boston through our first-year application process. Military students who have additional college experience beyond a Joint Service Transcript, including transcripts from the Community College of the Air Force and American Public University System, are considered transfer students, and may apply to UMass Boston through our transfer application process. Students are directed to receive approval from the students Education Services Officer (ESO), military counselor, or Service prior to enrollment. Qualifying veterans, dependents, and eligible individuals will be charged at the in-state tuition rate per The Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014. UMass Boston recognizes the value of your military experience and education, be sure to send us your military transcripts and connect with our transfer admissions team to discuss transferring military credits to your degree program. Veterans Affairs will help you figure out your educational benefits once you have been admitted to the university. Service members and reservists may be readmitted to a program if they are temporarily unable to attend class or have to suspend their studies due to service requirements. Review the universitys re-enrollment policy for more information. 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Apply as a Veteran Military Credit Explore Your Veteran Financial Benefits Readmissions Policy Apply as a Veteran - UMass Boston Contact the Office of Veterans Affairs before applying for benefits. Qualifying veterans, dependents, and eligible individuals will be charged at the in-state tuition rate per The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014. Here are five major educational funding benefit programs: Most of the veterans studying at UMass Boston are using the benefits of the Post 9/11 GI Bill (a.k.a. Chapter 33). Service members and veterans who served on active duty on or after September 11, 2001 are eligible for these benefits. Three years of Active Duty (AD) time qualifies you for 100% of benefits based on full-time enrollment. This includes your cost of attendance, a $1,000 book stipend, and E5 Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) with dependents, based on UMass Bostons 02125 ZIP code. For service of over 90 days, but less than three years, you receive between 40% and 90% of these benefits. Active Duty members and their spouses do not receive the BAH, but are entitled to the book stipend and cost of tuition. Children of Active Duty members utilizing Chapter 33 are eligible for BAH, book stipend, and cost of tuition. Spouses of veterans are are eligible for BAH, book stipend, and cost of tuition. You receive up to 36 months of these benefits, prorated for the number of days you are enrolled and based on the Academic Calendar. Transferring this benefit to a dependent must be completed with the Department of Defense prior to applying for VA benefits. Whether these benefits expire depends on when you were discharged from active duty. If your service ended before January 1, 2013, your Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) benefits will expire 15 years after your last separation date from active service. You must use all of your benefits by that time or youll lose whatevers left. If your service ended on or after January 1, 2013, your benefits wont expire thanks to a new law called the Forever GI Bill - Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act. To learn more about the Forever GI Bill visit va.gov Most of the veterans studying at UMass Boston are using the benefits of the Post 9/11 GI Bill (a.k.a. Chapter 33). Service members and veterans who served on active duty on or after September 11, 2001 are eligible for these benefits. Whether these benefits expire depends on when you were discharged from active duty. To learn more about the Forever GI Bill visit va.gov Military Tuition Assistance (TA) is a benefit paid to eligible members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard. Congress has given each service the ability to pay up to 100% for the tuition expenses of its members. If you paid into education benefits while on Active Duty, you qualify for a stipend. Chapter 30 does not pay for cost of attendance or a book stipend. If you exhaust all 36 months of the Montgomery GI Bill, you may be eligible for 12 months of Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits. For additional information on the qualification categories visit va.gov. Military Tuition Assistance (TA) is a benefit paid to eligible members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard. Congress has given each service the ability to pay up to 100% for the tuition expenses of its members. Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E), sometimes referred to as the Chapter 31 program, provides services to eligible Service members and Veterans with service-connected disabilities to help them prepare for, obtain, and maintain suitable employment or achieve independence in daily living. Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E), sometimes referred to as the Chapter 31 program, provides services to eligible Service members and Veterans with service-connected disabilities to help them prepare for, obtain, and maintain suitable employment or achieve independence in daily living. Find out if youre eligible for VA education benefits for dependents and survivors (also called Chapter 35 benefits). If youre a dependent spouse or childor the surviving spouse or childof a Veteran, you may qualify for Chapter 35 benefits or job training through a GI Bill program. For more information visit va.gov. Find out if youre eligible for VA education benefits for dependents and survivors (also called Chapter 35 benefits). If youre a dependent spouse or childor the surviving spouse or childof a Veteran, you may qualify for Chapter 35 benefits or job training through a GI Bill program. For more information visit va.gov. SELRES, also referred to as Chapter 1606, is for actively drilling reservists with no active duty time (training only). Chapter 1606 pays a stipend. If you are eligible for a kicker, and provide proper documentation, that kicker amount is applied to your stipend. When applying for Chapter 1606 Select Reserve GI Bill, please include your Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE). SELRES, also referred to as Chapter 1606, is for actively drilling reservists with no active duty time (training only). Chapter 1606 pays a stipend. If you are eligible for a kicker, and provide proper documentation, that kicker amount is applied to your stipend. When applying for Chapter 1606 Select Reserve GI Bill, please include your Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE). Massachusetts Veteran Tuition Credit To qualify for this tuition-only credit, you must have already been accepted into a degree program. As a degree-seeking Massachusetts veteran, you will receive the tuition credit when you provide us with a copy of your DD214 (Member-4) showing an Honorable Discharge. The credit applies to state-funded programs offered at UMass Boston. As a tuition-only credit, it does not cover your UMass Boston fees (curriculum, service, mandatory or lab fees, etc.). Yellow Ribbon Program UMass Boston is a yellow ribbon program approved school. Please contact the UMass Boston Veterans Affairs Office for more information. *GI Bill is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website. Tuition Assistance TA is requested online using the Air Force Virtual Education Center (AFVEC Portal). Air Force Tuition Assistance Army Tuition Assistance Navy Tuition Assistance Marine Corps Tuition Assistance Coast Guard Tuition Assistance National Guard Tuition Assistance Reserve Tuition Assistance Army National Guard Educational Counseling Services ArmyIgnitED is the Army's enterprise voluntary education portal that allows eligible Soldiers, Cadets and Army Civilians to request financial assistance for classroom and online learning courses anytime and from anywhere. Navy Resources Tuition Assistance TA is requested online using the Air Force Virtual Education Center (AFVEC Portal). Army National Guard Educational Counseling Services ArmyIgnitED is the Army's enterprise voluntary education portal that allows eligible Soldiers, Cadets and Army Civilians to request financial assistance for classroom and online learning courses anytime and from anywhere. Navy Resources A person assigned the responsibility for advising servicepersons of the educational opportunities available to Active-Duty personnel. This includes civilian ESOs, military career counselors, and other employees of military education offices. All Active-Duty Service Members (including Guard and Reserve) must contact their Education Service Officer (ESO) or Education Counselor within their branch of service before enrolling in any college or university. To use military Tuition Assistance or Active Duty, Reservist, and National Guard students must submit a copy of the Tuition Assistance certificate to the School Certifying Official. If you have any questions or need to submit TA Vouchers, please email veterans@umb.edu A person assigned the responsibility for advising servicepersons of the educational opportunities available to Active-Duty personnel. This includes civilian ESOs, military career counselors, and other employees of military education offices. All Active-Duty Service Members (including Guard and Reserve) must contact their Education Service Officer (ESO) or Education Counselor within their branch of service before enrolling in any college or university. To use military Tuition Assistance or Active Duty, Reservist, and National Guard students must submit a copy of the Tuition Assistance certificate to the School Certifying Official. If you have any questions or need to submit TA Vouchers, please email veterans@umb.edu 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Financial Benefits How to Use the GI Bill to Pay for College Federal Veteran Financial Benefits Other Programs and Credits Post 9/11 GI Bill Montgomery GI Bill (Active Duty) Vocational Rehabilitation Chapter 35 Survivors and Dependents Education Assistance (DEA) Select Reserve GI Bill (SELRES) Tuition Assistance Education Services Officer (ESO) Financial Benefits - UMass Boston At UMass Boston State Benefits Federal Benefits Military Spouse Benefits See Also: ROTC opportunities at UMass Boston 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston, MA 02125 617.287.5000 Copyright University of Massachusetts Boston UMass Boston Menu Further Resources Financial Resources - UMass Boston